<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cloudera_support">
  <title>Cloudera Support</title>
  <body>
    <p>As the use of Hadoop grows and an increasing number of groups and applications move into
      production, your Hadoop users will expect greater levels of performance and consistency.
      Cloudera’s proactive production-level support gives your administrators the expertise and
      responsiveness they need.</p>
    <p>Cloudera Support includes:</p>
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_ayx_mtx_wq">
      <title>Cloudera Support Features</title>
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Feature</entry>
            <entry>Description</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Flexible Support Windows</entry>
            <entry>Choose 8×5 or 24×7 to meet SLA requirements.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Configuration Checks</entry>
            <entry>Verify that your Hadoop cluster is fine-tuned for your environment.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Escalation and Issue Resolution</entry>
            <entry>Resolve support cases with maximum efficiency.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Comprehensive Knowledge Base</entry>
            <entry>Expand your Hadoop knowledge with hundreds of articles and tech notes.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Support for Certified Integration</entry>
            <entry>Connect your Hadoop cluster to your existing data analysis tools.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Proactive Notification</entry>
            <entry>Stay up-to-speed on new developments and events.</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    <p>With Cloudera Enterprise, you can leverage your existing team’s experience and Cloudera’s
      expertise to put your Hadoop system into effective operation. Built-in predictive capabilities
      anticipate shifts in the Hadoop infrastructure to support reliable function.</p>
    <p>Cloudera Enterprise makes it easy to run open source Hadoop in production, by:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Simplifying and accelerating Hadoop deployment</li>
      <li>Reducing the costs and risks of adopting Hadoop in production</li>
      <li>Reliably operating Hadoop in production with repeatable success</li>
      <li>Applying SLAs to Hadoop</li>
      <li>Increasing control over Hadoop cluster provisioning and management</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>
