<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ytb_3h1_yp">
  <title>Dell Admin Node Deployment</title>

  <body>
    <p>The deployment of the Dell Solution Admin Host is performed using a
    kickstart file. This kickstart file performs the following steps when
    properly configured.<ul>
        <li>Partitions the system Sets</li>

        <li>SELinux to permissive mode</li>

        <li>Disables firewalld and uses iptables</li>

        <li>Disables NetworkManager</li>

        <li>Configures networking including the following: <ul>
            <li>bonding</li>

            <li>bridges</li>

            <li>static IP addresses</li>

            <li>The gateway</li>

            <li>Name resolution</li>

            <li>NTP time service</li>
          </ul></li>

        <li>Registers the system using the Red Hat Subscription Manager</li>
      </ul></p>

    <section><title>1.1.1. Determine Pool ID</title>To determine the pool id
    needed for registration using subscription-manager, you must have an
    existing server that is registered to the RedHat Hosted Services. This
    server must also be registered using the same credentials as the ones
    being used in this environment.</section>

    <p>Once the server is correctly registered, execute the
    subscription-manager list --all --available command to see the available
    subscription pools.</p>

    <p>The command will output a list of available pools. Each section of
    information lists what the subscription provides, its pool ID, how many
    are available, the type of system it is for, as well as other
    information.</p>

    <p>Determine the correct pool ID’s needed for this environment and take
    note of them. Place close attention to the System Type. The System Type
    can be Virtual or Physical. You cannot use a pool marked as Virtual for a
    physical server.</p>

    <codeblock># subscription-manager list --all --available

[OUTPUT ABBREVIATED]

Subscription Name: Red Hat Cloud Infrastructure, Standard (8-sockets)
Provides:          Red Hat Beta
                   Red Hat OpenStack Beta
                   JBoss Enterprise Application Platform
                   Red Hat Software Collections (for RHEL Server)
                   Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization
                   Oracle Java (for RHEL Server)
                   Red Hat OpenStack
                   Red Hat Enterprise MRG Messaging
                   Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server
                   Red Hat Enterprise Linux High Availability (for RHEL Server)
                   Red Hat Software Collections Beta (for RHEL Server)
                   Red Hat Enterprise Linux Load Balancer (for RHEL Server)
                   Red Hat CloudForms
SKU:               MCT2861
Pool ID:           aaaa111bbb222ccc333ddd444eee5556
Available:         7
Suggested:         1
Service Level:     Standard
Service Type:      L1-L3
Multi-Entitlement: No
Ends:              09/23/2015
System Type:       Physical


[OUTPUT ABBREVIATED]</codeblock>

    <section>The above output shows a subscription that contains the OpenStack
    repositories. This subscription is for a physical system, so this pool ID
    will work for the controller and compute nodes. The Foreman virtual
    machine can use this same subscription even though the subscription is for
    a physical system and not a virtual machine. However, the physical servers
    cannot use a subscription type marked as Virtual.</section>

    <p>The Solution Admin Host could use this same subscription since it only
    needs the Red Hat Enterprise Server subscription and this one includes it.
    However, this would be wasteful. Look for a subscription that contains
    only the Red Hat Enterprise Server subscription to use for the SAH
    host.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
