<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="determine_pool_id_sah">
  <title>Determine Pool ID</title>
  <shortdesc>To determine the pool id, you must have an existing server that is registered to the
    Red Hat Hosted Services. This server must also be registered using the same credentials as the
    ones being used in this environment.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <ol>
      <li>Once the server is correctly registered, execute the following command to see the
        available subscription
          pools.<codeblock># subscription-manager list --all --available</codeblock><p>The command
          will output a list of available pools. Each section of information lists what the
          subscription provides, its pool ID, how many are available, the type of system it is for,
          as well as other information.</p></li>
      <li>Determine the correct pool ID needed for this environment and take note of it. <note>Place
          close attention to the <b>System Type</b>. The System Type can be <i>Virtual</i> or
            <i>Physical</i>. You cannot use a pool marked as <i>Virtual</i> for a physical
          server.</note></li>
    </ol>
    <codeblock># subscription-manager list --all --available

[OUTPUT ABBREVIATED]

Subscription Name: Red Hat Cloud Infrastructure, Standard (8-sockets)
Provides:          Red Hat Beta
                   Red Hat OpenStack Beta
                   JBoss Enterprise Application Platform
                   Red Hat Software Collections (for RHEL Server)
                   Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization
                   Oracle Java (for RHEL Server)
                   Red Hat OpenStack
                   Red Hat Enterprise MRG Messaging
                   Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server
                   Red Hat Enterprise Linux High Availability (for RHEL Server)
                   Red Hat Software Collections Beta (for RHEL Server)
                   Red Hat Enterprise Linux Load Balancer (for RHEL Server)
                   Red Hat CloudForms
SKU:               MCT2861
Pool ID:           aaaa111bbb222ccc333ddd444eee5556
Available:         7
Suggested:         1
Service Level:     Standard
Service Type:      L1-L3
Multi-Entitlement: No
Ends:              09/23/2015
System Type:       Physical


[OUTPUT ABBREVIATED]</codeblock>
    <p>The above output shows a subscription that contains the OpenStack repositories. This subscription is for a physical system, so this pool ID will work for the controller and compute nodes. The Foreman virtual machine can use this same subscription even though the subscription is for a physical system and not a virtual machine.</p>
    <p>The Solution Admin Host could use this same subscription since it only needs the Red Hat Enterprise Server subscription and this one includes it. However, this would be wasteful. Look for a subscription that contains only the Red Hat Enterprise Server subscription to use for the SAH host.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
