<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ytb_3h1_yp">
  <title>Tempest Virtual Machine Deployment</title>

  <body>
    <p>The deployment of the Tempest virtual machine is performed using the
    deploy-tempest-vm.sh script. This script creates a kickstart file and then
    executes the virt-install command to install the system.</p>

    <p>The generated kickstart script performs the following steps.</p>

    <p><ul>
        <li>Partitions the system Sets</li>

        <li>SELinux to permissive mode</li>

        <li>Configures iptables to run on the system and disables
        firewalld.</li>

        <li>Configures networking including the following: <ul>
            <li>static IP addresses</li>

            <li>The gateway</li>

            <li>Name resolution</li>

            <li>NTP time service</li>
          </ul></li>

        <li>Registers the system using the Red Hat Subscription Manager</li>
</ul></p><p/>

    <section><title>1.1 Setup</title>Make sure a copy of the ISO for the Red
    Hat Enterprise Server 7 Installation DVD is in the /store/data/iso
    directory</section>

    <p>Copy the deploy-tempest-vm.sh script into the /root directory.</p>

    <p/>

    <section><title>1.2 Configuration</title>Create a configuration file in
    the /root directory called tempest.cfg.</section>

    <p>The file should look similar to the following file:</p>

    <codeblock>hostname tempest.example.org
rootpassword changeme
timezone America/Chicago
smuser CHANGEME
smpassword 'CHANGEME'
smpool 5438fdsdgf09gig8er80gfgeg8eg8gff

gateway 10.19.143.254
nameserver 10.19.143.247,10.19.143.248
ntpserver 0.fedora.pool.ntp.org


# Iface IP NETMASK
ens3 10.19.139.65 255.255.248.0
ens4 172.44.139.65 255.255.255.0
</codeblock>

    <p/>

    <p>The file contains the following configuration parameters: Set the
    following variables:</p>

    <p><table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colwidth="266*"/>

          <colspec colwidth="734*"/>

          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><b>hostname</b></entry>

              <entry>The FQDN of the server.</entry>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry><b>rootpassword</b></entry>

              <entry>The root user password for the system.</entry>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry><b>timezone</b></entry>

              <entry>The timezone the system is in.</entry>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry><b>smuser</b></entry>

              <entry>The user credential when registering with Subscription
              Manager.</entry>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry><b>smpassword</b></entry>

              <entry>The user password when registering with Subscription
              Manager. The password must be enclosed in single quotes if it
              contains certain special characters</entry>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry><b>smpool</b></entry>

              <entry>The pool ID used when attaching the system to an
              entitlement.</entry>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry><b>gateway</b></entry>

              <entry>The default gateway for the system.</entry>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry><b>nameserver</b></entry>

              <entry>A comma separated list of nameserver IP
              addresses.</entry>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry><b>ntpserver</b></entry>

              <entry>A comma separated list of time servers. This can be IP
              addresses or FQDNs.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table></p>

    <p/>

    <p>The following parameters must be specified after all the other
    parameters.</p>

    <table>
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <colspec colwidth="263*"/>

        <colspec colwidth="737*"/>

        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry><b>ens3</b></entry>

            <entry>This line specifies the IP address and network mask for the
            ens3 interface. The line begins with ens3 followed by at least one
            space and then the IP address, followed by another set of spaces
            and then the network mask.</entry>
          </row>

          <row>
            <entry><b>ens4</b></entry>

            <entry>This line specifies the IP address and network mask for the
            ens4 interface. The line begins with ens4 followed by at least one
            space and then the IP address, followed by another set of spaces
            and then the network mask.</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>

    <p/>

    <section><title>1.3 Installing the Tempest Virtual Machine</title>To install
    the Tempest virtual machine, invoke the deploy-tempest-vm.sh script. Pass
    tempest.cfg as the first parameter and the full path to the Red Hat
    Enterprise Server 6 Installation media as the second option.</section>

    <codeblock># ./deploy-tempest-vm.sh tempest.cfg /store/data/iso/rhel-server-7.0-x86_64-dvd.iso

Starting install...
Retrieving file .treeinfo... | 3.2 kB 00:00:00
Retrieving file vmlinuz... | 7.9 MB 00:00:00
Retrieving file initrd.img... | 64 MB 00:00:00
Creating storage file tempest.img | 16 GB 00:00:00
Creating domain... | 0 B 00:00:00
Domain installation still in progress. You can reconnect to
the console to complete the installation process.
</codeblock>

    <p/>

    <p>The installation will begin, but no console will be displayed. To
    display the console, make sure you are logged into a GUI environment, open
    a terminal and type virt-viewer tempest.</p>

    <p>Note that if you are connected to the Foreman server using a Windows
    system, you need to install Xwin Server before executing virt-viewer
    tempest.</p>

    <p>A console for the Tempest virtual machine will open.</p>

    <p>After the virtual machine completes the installation, it will power
    itself off.</p>

    <p/>

    <p>The power state of the virtual machine can be viewed using the virsh
    list --all command.</p>

    <codeblock># virsh list --all
Id Name State
----------------------------------------------------
2 tempest running
</codeblock>

    <p/>

    <p>The virtual machine can be started using the following command:</p>

    <codeblock># virsh start tempest</codeblock>

    <p/>

    <section><title>1.4 Next Steps</title>After the Tempest virtual machine is
    installed and the Tempest installer is executed, the Tempest instance must be
    configured for the environment.</section>

    <p>Follow the applicable Tempest Configuration Guide.</p>

    <p/>

    <section><title>2 deploy-tempest-vm.sh</title><codeblock>! /bin/bash

[[ ${#@} != 2 ]] &amp;&amp; echo "This script requires two parameters, a configuration file as the first parameter and the location of the installation ISO as the second parameter." &amp;&amp; exit

cfg_file=$1
location=$2

cat &lt;&lt;'EOFKS' &gt; /tmp/tempest.ks

install
cdrom
reboot

# Partitioning
ignoredisk --only-use=vda
zerombr
bootloader --boot-drive=vda

clearpart --all

part /boot --fstype=ext4 --size=500
part pv.01 --size=8192 --grow

volgroup VolGroup --pesize=4096 pv.01

logvol / --fstype=ext4 --name=lv_root --vgname=VolGroup --grow --size=1024
logvol swap --name=lv_swap --vgname=VolGroup --size=1024

keyboard --vckeymap=us --xlayouts='us'
lang en_US.UTF-8

auth --enableshadow --passalgo=sha512

%include /tmp/ks_include.txt

skipx
firstboot --disable
eula --agreed

%packages
@core
ntp
ntpdate
-chrony
-firewalld
system-config-firewall-base
%end

%pre --log /tmp/tempest-pre.log
EOFKS


{
ntp=``

while read iface ip mask bridge
do
flag=``

[[ ${iface} == rootpassword ]] &amp;&amp; echo "echo rootpw ${ip} &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_include.txt"
[[ ${iface} == timezone ]] &amp;&amp; echo "echo timezone ${ip} --utc &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_include.txt"

[[ ${iface} == hostname ]] &amp;&amp; {
HostName=${ip}
echo "echo HostName=${ip} &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_post_include.txt"
}

[[ ${iface} == nameserver ]] &amp;&amp; {
NameServers=${ip}
echo "echo NameServers=${ip} &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_post_include.txt"
}

[[ ${iface} == gateway ]] &amp;&amp; {
Gateway=${ip}
echo "echo Gateway=${ip} &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_post_include.txt"
}

[[ ${iface} == ntpserver ]] &amp;&amp; echo "echo NTPServer=${ip} &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_post_include.txt"
[[ ${iface} == smuser ]] &amp;&amp; echo "echo SMUser=${ip} &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_post_include.txt"
[[ ${iface} == smpassword ]] &amp;&amp; echo "echo SMPassword=\'${ip}\' &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_post_include.txt"
[[ ${iface} == smpool ]] &amp;&amp; echo "echo SMPool=${ip} &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_post_include.txt"

[[ ${iface} == ens3 ]] &amp;&amp; {
echo "echo network --activate --onboot=true --noipv6 --device=${iface} --bootproto=static --ip=${ip} --netmask=${mask} --hostname=${HostName} --gateway=${Gateway} --nameserver=${NameServers} &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_include.txt"
}

[[ ${iface} == ens4 ]] &amp;&amp; {
echo "echo network --activate --onboot=true --noipv6 --device=${iface} --bootproto=static --ip=${ip} --netmask=${mask} --gateway=${Gateway} --nodefroute &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_include.txt"
}

done &lt;&lt;&lt; "$( grep -Ev "^#|^;|^\s*$" ${cfg_file} )"
} &gt;&gt; /tmp/tempest.ks

cat &lt;&lt;'EOFKS' &gt;&gt; /tmp/tempest.ks
%end

%post --nochroot --logfile /root/tempest-post.log
# Copy the files created during the %pre section to /root of the installed system for later use.
cp -v /tmp/tempest-pre.log /mnt/sysimage/root
cp -v /tmp/ks_include.txt /mnt/sysimage/root
cp -v /tmp/ks_post_include.txt /mnt/sysimage/root
%end

%post

exec &lt; /dev/tty8 &gt; /dev/tty8
chvt 8

(
# Source the variables from the %pre section
. /root/ks_post_include.txt

# Configure name resolution
for ns in ${NameServers//,/ }
do
echo "nameserver ${ns}" &gt;&gt; /etc/resolv.conf
done

echo "GATEWAY=${Gateway}" &gt;&gt; /etc/sysconfig/network

sed -i -e '/^DNS/d' -e '/^GATEWAY/d' /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-ens3
sed -i -e '/^DNS/d' -e '/^GATEWAY/d' /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-ens4

echo "$( ip addr show dev ens3 | awk '/inet / { print $2 }' | sed 's/\/.*//' ) ${HostName}" &gt;&gt; /etc/hosts

echo "----------------------"
ip addr
echo "subscription-manager register --username ${SMUser} --password *********"
echo "----------------------"
subscription-manager register --username ${SMUser} --password ${SMPassword}

SMPool=``

[[ x${SMPool} = x ]] \
&amp;&amp; SMPool=$( subscription-manager list --available | awk '/Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server/,/Pool/ {pool = $3} END {print pool}' )

[[ -n ${SMPool} ]] \
&amp;&amp; subscription-manager attach --pool ${SMPool} \
|| ( echo "Could not find a Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server pool to attach to. - Auto-attaching to any pool." \
subscription-manager attach --auto
)

# Disable all enabled repositories
for repo in $( yum repolist all | awk '/enabled:/ { print $1}' )
do
yum-config-manager --disable ${repo} | grep -E "^\[|^enabled"
done

yum-config-manager --enable rhel-7-server-rpms

cat &lt;&lt;EOIP &gt; /etc/sysconfig/iptables
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p icmp -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m tcp -p tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m tcp -p tcp --dport 4505 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m tcp -p tcp --dport 4506 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-host-prohibited
-A FORWARD -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-host-prohibited
COMMIT
EOIP

systemctl enable iptables


sed -i -e "s/^SELINUX=.*/SELINUX=permissive/" /etc/selinux/config

# Configure the ntp daemon
chkconfig ntpd on
sed -i -e "/^server /d" /etc/ntp.conf

for ntps in ${NTPServers//,/ }
do
echo "server ${ntps}" &gt;&gt; /etc/ntp.conf
done

yum -y update

systemctl disable NetworkManager
systemctl disable firewalld



) 2&gt;&amp;1 | /usr/bin/tee -a /root/tempest-post.log

chvt 6

%end

EOFKS


[[ ! -e /store/data/images ]] &amp;&amp; mkdir -p /store/data/images

virt-install --name tempest \
--ram 1024 \
--vcpus 1 \
--hvm \
--os-type linux \
--os-variant rhel6 \
--disk /store/data/images/tempest.img,bus=virtio,size=16 \
--network bridge=public \
--network bridge=provision \
--initrd-inject /tmp/tempest.ks \
--extra-args "ks=file:/tempest.ks" \
--noautoconsole \
--graphics spice \
--autostart \
--location ${location}
</codeblock></section>
  </body>
</topic>
