<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="bonded_nic_config">
  <title>Bonded NIC Configuration</title>
  <shortdesc>Three parameters can be set on the hosts to provide the information needed to allow the kickstart file to configure the bonded interfaces:</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <ul>
      <li><parmname>bonds</parmname></li>
      <li><parmname>bond_ifaces</parmname></li>
      <li><parmname>bond_opts</parmname></li>
    </ul>
    <p>The <codeph>bonds</codeph> parameter is similar to the <codeph>nics</codeph> parameter used earlier with the addition of the <i>vlan</i> option and the removal of the <i>mac address</i> option.</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Create a vLAN tagged bond, using the <b>vlan</b> option to let the
          <codeph>bonding_snippet</codeph> know this bond is vLAN tagged.<ol id="ol_gjq_gdr_3q">
          <li>Also specify the tag number in the bond name.</li>
        </ol><p>This example creates a <i>bond0</i> that is enabled at boot. It then creates a vLAN
          tagged bond on the bond called
          <i>bond0.301</i>:</p><codeblock>'( [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.301]="onboot static vlan 172.30.139.62/255.255.255.0" )'</codeblock><note>See
          the <codeph>bonding_snippet</codeph> documentation for more information.</note></li>
      <li>Use the <b>bond</b>_ifaces parameter to specify the interfaces for each bond. For example, to bond interfaces <i>em1</i> and <i>em2</i> into <i>bond0</i>:<codeblock>'( [bond0]="em1 em2" )'</codeblock></li>
      <li>Use the <b>bond_opts</b> parameter to specify the bonding options to use for each bond.
        For example:<codeblock>'( "[bond0]="mode=balance-tlb" )'</codeblock></li>
      <li>Create the three (3) needed parameters using the <cmdname>hammer host
          set-parameter</cmdname> command.<ol id="ol_ujc_hfr_3q">
          <li>Replace the <b>HOST_ID</b>, <b>VLAN</b>, and <b>IP/MASK</b> information as appropriate
            to define the bonds.</li>
        </ol><codeblock># hammer host set-parameter --host-id HOST_ID --name bonds \
  --value '( [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.VLAN1]="onboot static vlan IP/MASK"
  [bond0.VLAN2]="onboot static vlan IP/MASK" [bond1]="onboot static IP/MASK")'

# hammer host set-parameter --host-id HOST_ID --name bond_ifaces \
  --value '( [bond0]="p3p1 p3p2" [bond1]="em1 em2")'

# hammer host set-parameter --host-id HOST_ID --name bond_opts \
  --value '( [bond0]="mode=active-backup" [bond1]="mode=active-backup")'</codeblock></li>
      <li>Repeat the parameter configuration for all the controller nodes.</li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
