<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="configure_templates">
  <title>Configure Templates</title>
  <shortdesc>Four template files are provided and used to provision hosts.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_afz_s1q_3q">
      <title>Provisioning Templates</title>
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.5*"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Template</entry>
            <entry>Description</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>
              <p><codeph>dell-osp-ks.template</codeph></p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>Provisioning template that provides the kickstart file.</p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>
              <p><codeph>dell-osp-pxe.template</codeph></p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>PXE template that contains the PXE configuration.</p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>
              <p><codeph>interface_config.template</codeph></p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>Snippet that provides a means to configure extra interfaces during installation.
                This template is called from the kickstart template. </p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>
              <p><codeph>bonding_snippet.template</codeph></p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>Snippet that provides a means to bond interfaces during installation. This template
                is called from the kickstart template. </p>
            </entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
<ol>
  <li>Create the templates using the <cmdname>hammer template create</cmdname>
        command.<codeblock># hammer template create --name "Dell OpenStack Kickstart Template" --type provision \
  --operatingsystem-ids "OS_ID_RH7.0" --file /root/pilot/dell-osp-ks.template

# hammer template create --name "Dell OpenStack PXE Template" --type PXELinux \
  --operatingsystem-ids "OS_ID_RH7.0" --file /root/pilot/dell-osp-pxe.template

# hammer template create --name "bond_interfaces" --type snippet \
  --file /root/pilot/bonding_snippet.template

# hammer template create --name "interface_config" --type snippet \
  --file /root/pilot/interface_config.template</codeblock></li>
  <li>After the templates are created, use the <cmdname>hammer template list</cmdname> command to determine the IDs of the templates.<p>The provisioning and PXE templates must be associated with the operating systems.</p></li>
  <li>Execute the <cmdname>hammer os update</cmdname> command to update the template associations for the Red Hat 7.0 operating system ID.<codeblock># hammer os update --config-template-ids "KS_ID, PXE_ID" \
  --medium-ids MEDIUM_ID --id OS_ID</codeblock><p>The templates are now associated with the operating system. They must now be set as the default templates for the operating system.</p></li>
  <li>Execute the <cmdname>hammer os set-default template</cmdname> command for the provisioning and PXELinux templates. The command will be executed two times.<codeblock># hammer os set-default-template --config-template-id TMPLT_ID --id OS_ID</codeblock></li>
  <li>You can execute the <cmdname>hammer os info</cmdname> command to check the configuration of the operating systems.<codeblock># hammer os info --id 1</codeblock></li>
</ol>
    <p>You will see output similar to this:</p>
    <codeblock>Id:                 1
Full name:          RedHat 7.0
Release name:
Family:             Redhat
Name:               RedHat
Major version:      7
Minor version:      0
Partition tables:

Default templates:
    Dell OpenStack Kickstart Template (provision)
    Dell OpenStack PXE Template (PXELinux)
Architectures:

Installation media:
    Red Hat Satellite
Templates:
    Dell OpenStack Kickstart Template (provision)
    Dell OpenStack PXE Template (PXELinux)
Parameters:</codeblock>
  </body>
</topic>
