<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="configure_hostgroup_parameters">
  <title>Configure Hostgroup Parameters</title>
  <shortdesc>Most hostgroup parameters are configured using an <codeph>ERB</codeph> file. This makes
    configuration quicker and easier than using the Foreman interface.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <ol>
      <li>Edit the <codeph>dell-pilot.yaml.erb</codeph> file:<ol id="ol_gwv_bgf_jq">
          <li>Change the variables between the lines marked <b>Variables</b> to <b>Change</b>.</li>
          <li>Change the variables between the lines marked <b>End of Variable</b> to
            <b>Change</b>.</li>
        </ol><note>The most common variables that require changes have values of
          <i>CHANGEME_*</i>.</note></li>
      <li>Install the <codeph>rubygen-foreman_api</codeph> package, in order to apply the changes in
        the <cmdname>dell-pilot.yaml.erb</cmdname>
        file:<codeblock># yum install -y rubygem-foreman_api</codeblock></li>
      <li>Change to the <codeph>/usr/share/openstack-foreman-installer</codeph> directory.</li>
      <li>Execute the <cmdname>bin/quickstack_defaults.rb</cmdname>
        command:<codeblock># cd /usr/share/openstack-foreman-installer

# bin/quickstack_defaults.rb -g config/hostgroups.yaml -d ~/dell-pilot.yaml.erb -v parameters</codeblock></li>
      <li>Set the <b>network_overrides</b> parameter with the <cmdname>hammer sc-param
          update</cmdname> command, as it cannot easily be set using the
          <cmdname>dell-pilot.yaml.erb</cmdname> file. The command determines the parameter ID, and
        then applies the changes.<ol id="ol_cnb_msk_jq">
          <li>Replace <b>VLAN</b> with the <b>starting VLAN number </b>to be used in the
            environment.</li>
          <li>Ensure that the syntax of the line does not
            change.<codeblock># ParamId=$( hammer sc-param  list --per-page 1000 --search network_overrides \
  | awk '/network_overrides/ {print $1}')

# hammer sc-param update --id ${ParamId} \
  --default-value "{'vlan_start': VLAN, 'force_dhcp_release': 'false'}" --override yes</codeblock></li>

        </ol></li>
      <li>Disable Neutron from the Foreman user interface; it is unneeded for this environment:<ol
          id="ol_ngb_4wk_jq">
          <li>Log into the Foreman UI.</li>
          <li>Select the <b>Configure</b> dropdown on the top of the window.</li>
          <li>Select <b>Hostgroups</b>.</li>
          <li>Select the <b>HA All In One Controller</b>. </li>
          <li>Select the <b>Parameters</b> tab.</li>
          <li>Locate the <parmname>quickstack::pacemaker::neutron::enabled</parmname> parameter, and
            then select the <b>override</b> button to the right of them.</li>
          <li>Scroll down to the bottom of the window, and then enter <b>false</b> as the value for
            the overridden parameter.</li>
        <li>Select the <b>Submit</b> button.</li>
        </ol></li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
