<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="provisioning_nodes">
  <title>Provisioning the Nodes</title>
  <shortdesc>Variables are used to simplify nodes provisioning using the <cmdname>hammer</cmdname> command.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <ol>
      <li>Set the <b>NAME</b>, <b>PTABLE</b>, and <b>MAC</b> variables appropriately for a
          host.<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_nzm_g5q_3q">
          <title>Node Provisioning Variables</title>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Variable</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <p><parmname>NAME</parmname></p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>The hostname of the provisioned host. </p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <p><parmname>PTABLE</parmname></p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>The ID of the partition table that should be used when deploying this host.
                    This ID is the same for all the compute nodes, but the controller uses a
                    different partition table ID. </p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><parmname>MAC</parmname></entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>The hardware address of the provisioning interface for the node. </p>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table></li>
      <li>Execute the <cmdname>hammer host create</cmdname> command.</li>
      <li>Once the host is created, reset the variables for the next host and then execute the same <cmdname>hammer</cmdname> command again.</li>
      <li>Repeat this until all hosts are created.<note>Make sure to change the root password on the command line as needed</note></li>
      <li>Change the remaining IDs in the command as appropriate.<codeblock># NAME=CHANGEME

# PTABLE=CHANGEME

# MAC=CHANGEME

# hammer host create --name "${NAME}" --root-password 'CHANGEME' \
    --build true --enabled true --managed true --environment-id 2 \
    --domain-id 1 --puppet-proxy-id 1 --operatingsystem-id 2 \
    --subnet-id 1 --architecture-id 1 --medium-id 9 \
    --partition-table-id ${PTABLE} \
    --mac ${MAC}</codeblock></li>
    </ol>
  </body>
  
  <topic id="get_host_info" conref="get_host_info.dita#get_host_info">
    <title/>
  </topic>
  
  <topic id="controller_node" conref="controller_node.dita#controller_node">
    <title/>
  </topic>  
  
    
</topic>
