<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_vdh_2gw_yp">
  <title>References</title>
  <body>
    <p>Additional information can be obtained at <xref href="http://www.dell.com/openstack"
        format="html" scope="external"/> or by e-mailing <xref href="mailto:openstack@dell.com"
        format="html" scope="external">openstack@dell.com</xref>.</p>
    <p>If you need additional services or implementation help, please contact your Dell sales representative.</p>
    <section><title>To Learn More</title></section>
    <p>For more information on the Dell Red Hat Cloud Solutions with <tm tmtype="tm">Red Hat Enterprise Linux</tm>
      OpenStack Platform visit <xref href="http://www.dell.com/openstack" format="html"
        scope="external">http://www.dell.com/openstack</xref>.</p>
    <p>&#169;2014 Dell Inc. All rights reserved. Trademarks and trade names may be used in this document to refer to either the entities claiming the marks and names or their products. Specifications are correct at date of publication but are subject to availability or change without notice at any time. Dell and its affiliates cannot be responsible for errors or omissions in typography or photography. Dell’s Terms and Conditions of Sales and Service apply and are available on request. Dell service offerings do not affect consumer’s statutory rights.</p>
    <p>Dell, the DELL logo, and the DELL badge, PowerConnect, and PowerVault are trademarks of Dell Inc.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
