<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="openstack_components">
  <title>OpenStack Components</title>
  <body>
    <p>The following component descriptions are from the http://OpenStack.org site. Extensive
      documentation for the OpenStack components is available at<xref
        href="http://www.openstack.org" format="html" scope="external">
        http://docs.openstack.org/</xref>.</p>
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="openstack_components">
      <title>OpenStack Components</title>
      <tgroup cols="3">
        <colspec colname="function" colnum="1" colwidth="0.25*"/>
        <colspec colname="codename" colnum="2" colwidth="0.25*"/>
        <colspec colname="description" colnum="3" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Function</entry>
            <entry>Code Name</entry>
            <entry>Description</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Identity</entry>
            <entry>Keystone</entry>
            <entry><xref href="http://www.OpenStack.org/software/OpenStack-shared-services/"
                format="html" scope="external">Identity Service</xref> provides a central directory
              of users mapped to the OpenStack services they can access. It acts as a common
              authentication system across the cloud operating system and can integrate with
              existing backend directory services.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Dashboard/Portal</entry>
            <entry>Horizon</entry>
            <entry><xref href="http://www.OpenStack.org/software/OpenStack-dashboard/" format="html"
                scope="external">OpenStack Dashboard</xref> provides administrators and users a
              graphical interface to access, provision and automate cloud-based resources. The
              extensible design makes it easy to plug in and expose third party products and
              services.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Object Storage</entry>
            <entry>Swift</entry>
            <entry><xref href="http://www.OpenStack.org/software/OpenStack-storage/" format="html"
                scope="external">OpenStack Object Storage</xref> is open source software for
              creating redundant, scalable object storage using clusters of standardized servers to
              store petabytes of accessible data. It is not a file system or real-time data storage
              system, but rather a long-term storage system for a more permanent type of static data
              that can be retrieved, leveraged, and then updated if necessary. Primary examples of
              data that best fit this type of storage model are virtual machine images, photo
              storage, email storage, and backup archiving. Having no central “brain” or master
              point of control provides greater scalability, redundancy, and permanence. <p>Objects are
                written to multiple hardware devices in the data center, with the OpenStack software
                responsible for ensuring data replication and integrity across the cluster. Storage
                clusters can scale horizontally by adding new nodes. Should a node fail, OpenStack
                works to replicate its content from other active nodes. Because OpenStack uses
                software logic to ensure data replication and distribution across different devices,
                inexpensive commodity hard drives and servers can be used in lieu of more expensive
                equipment.</p></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Compute/IaaS</entry>
            <entry>Nova</entry>
            <entry><xref href="http://www.OpenStack.org/software/OpenStack-compute/" format="html"
                scope="external">OpenStack Compute</xref> is open source software designed to
              provision and manage large networks of virtual machines, creating a redundant and
              scalable cloud computing platform. It gives you the software, control panels, and APIs
              required to orchestrate a cloud, including running instances, managing networks, and
              controlling access through users and projects. OpenStack Compute strives to be both
              hardware and hypervisor agnostic, currently supporting a variety of standard hardware
              configurations and seven major hypervisors.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Virtual Images</entry>
            <entry>Glance</entry>
            <entry><xref href="http://www.OpenStack.org/software/OpenStack-shared-services/"
                format="html" scope="external">OpenStack Image Service</xref> provides discovery,
              registration, and delivery services for virtual disk images. The Image Service API
              server provides a standard REST interface for querying information about virtual disk
              images stored in a variety of back-end stores, including OpenStack Object Storage.
              Clients can register new virtual disk images with the Image Service, query for
              information on publicly available disk images, and use the Image Service’s client
              library for streaming virtual disk images.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    
  </body>
</topic>
