<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="foreman_vm_dep">
  <title>Foreman Virtual Machine Deployment</title>

  <body>
    <p>The deployment of the Foreman virtual machine is performed using the
    deploy-foreman-vm.sh script. This script creates a kickstart file and then
    executes the virt-install command to install the system. </p>

    <p>The generated kickstart script performs the following steps:</p>

    <p><ul>
        <li>Partitions the system </li>

        <li>SELinux to permissive mode</li>

        <li>Configures iptables to ensure the following services can pass
        traffic: http, https, dns, tftp, and port 8140:tcp.</li>

        <li>Configures the Foreman server to act as a NAT’d gateway between
        the provisioning network and the public network.</li>

        <li>Configures networking including the following:<ul>
            <li>static IP addresses</li>

            <li>The gateway</li>

            <li>Name resolution</li>

            <li>NTP time service</li>
          </ul></li>

        <li>Registers the system using the Red Hat Subscription Manager</li>

        <li>Installs the Foreman installer.<ul>
            <li>Configures the Foreman installer to not install the EPEL
            repository.</li>
          </ul></li>
      </ul></p>

    <section><p/><title>1.1 Setup</title>Make sure a copy of the ISO for the
    Red Hat Enterprise Server 6 Installation DVD is in the /store/data/iso
    directory</section>

    <p>Copy the deploy-foreman-vm.sh script into the /root directory.</p>

    <p/>

    <section><title>1.2 Configuration</title>Create a configuration file in
    the /root directory called foreman.cfg.</section>

    <p>The file should look similar to the following file:</p>

    <p><codeblock>hostname foreman.example.org
rootpassword changeme
timezone America/Chicago
smuser CHANGEME
smpassword 'CHANGEME'
smpool 6598fg09gdf980fgdfgdfg90fdgd80f9

gateway 10.19.143.254
nameserver 10.19.143.247,10.19.143.248
ntpserver 0.fedora.pool.ntp.org


# Iface IP NETMASK
eth0 10.19.139.65 255.255.248.0
eth1 172.44.139.65 255.255.255.0</codeblock>The file contains the following
    configuration parameters: Set the following variables:</p>

    <p><table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colwidth="266*"/>

          <colspec colwidth="734*"/>

          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><b>hostname</b></entry>

              <entry>The FQDN of the server.</entry>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry><b>rootpassword</b></entry>

              <entry>The root user password for the system.</entry>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry><b>timezone</b></entry>

              <entry>The timezone the system is in.</entry>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry><b>smuser</b></entry>

              <entry>The user credential when registering with Subscription
              Manager.</entry>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry><b>smpassword</b></entry>

              <entry>The user password when registering with Subscription
              Manager. The password must be enclosed in single quotes if it
              contains certain special characters</entry>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry><b>smpool</b></entry>

              <entry>The pool ID used when attaching the system to an
              entitlement.</entry>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry><b>gateway</b></entry>

              <entry>The default gateway for the system.</entry>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry><b>nameserver</b></entry>

              <entry>A comma separated list of nameserver IP
              addresses.</entry>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry><b>ntpserver</b></entry>

              <entry>A comma separated list of time servers. This can be IP
              addresses or FQDNs.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table></p>

    <p/>

    <p>The following parameters must be specified after all the other
    parameters.</p>

    <table>
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <colspec colwidth="263*"/>

        <colspec colwidth="737*"/>

        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry><b>eth0</b></entry>

            <entry>This line specifies the IP address and network mask for the
            eth0 interface. The line begins with eth0 followed by at least one
            space and then the IP address, followed by another set of spaces
            and then the network mask.</entry>
          </row>

          <row>
            <entry><b>eth1</b></entry>

            <entry>This line specifies the IP address and network mask for the
            eth1 interface. The line begins with eth1 followed by at least one
            space and then the IP address, followed by another set of spaces
            and then the network mask.</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>

    <p/>

    <section><title>1.3 Installing the Foreman Virtual Machine</title>To
    install the Foreman virtual machine, invoke the deploy-foreman-vm.sh
    script. Pass foreman.cfg as the first parameter and the full path to the
    Red Hat Enterprise Server 6 Installation media as the second
    option.</section>

    <codeblock># ./deploy-foreman-vm.sh foreman.cfg /store/data/iso/rhel-server-6.5-x86_64-dvd.iso

Starting install...
Retrieving file .treeinfo... | 3.2 kB 00:00:00
Retrieving file vmlinuz... | 7.9 MB 00:00:00
Retrieving file initrd.img... | 64 MB 00:00:00
Creating storage file foreman.img | 16 GB 00:00:00
Creating domain... | 0 B 00:00:00
Domain installation still in progress. You can reconnect to
the console to complete the installation process.</codeblock>

    <section>The installation will begin, but no console will be displayed. To
    display the console, make sure you are logged into a GUI environment, open
    a terminal and type virt-viewer foreman.</section>

    <p>Note that if you are connected to the Foreman server using a Windows
    system, you need to install Xwin Server before executing virt-viewer
    foreman.</p>

    <p>A console for the Foreman virtual machine will open.</p>

    <p>After the virtual machine completes the installation, it will power
    itself off.</p>

    <p/>

    <p>The power state of the virtual machine can be viewed using the virsh
    list --all command.</p>

    <codeblock># virsh list --all
Id Name State
----------------------------------------------------
2 foreman running</codeblock>

    <p/>

    <p>The virtual machine can be started using the following command:</p>

    <codeblock># virsh start foreman</codeblock>

    <section><p/><title>1.4 Installing Foreman</title>To install Foreman, log
    into the Foreman virtual machine and execute the foreman_server.sh script
    that is located in the /usr/share/openstack-foreman-installer/bin
    directory.</section>

    <p>You must execute the script from the
    /usr/share/openstack-foreman-installer/bin directory. The
    FOREMAN_PROVISIONING, FOREMAN_GATEWAY, and PROVISIONING_INTERFACE
    variables should also be set.</p>

    <simpletable relcolwidth="273* 727*">
      <strow>
        <stentry><b>FOREMAN_PROVISIONING</b></stentry>

        <stentry>Provisioning is enabled if set to true.</stentry>
      </strow>

      <strow>
        <stentry><b>FOREMAN_GATEWAY</b></stentry>

        <stentry>This defines the gateway of the provisioned hosts. Set it to
        the ip address of the Foreman servers provisioning interface if the
        Foreman server will act as a gateway.</stentry>
      </strow>

      <strow>
        <stentry><b>PROVISIONING_INTERFACE</b></stentry>

        <stentry>The interface used for provisioning.</stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>

    <p/>

    <codeblock># cd /usr/share/openstack-foreman-installer/bin
# FOREMAN_PROVISIONING=true FOREMAN_GATEWAY=172.44.139.65 PROVISIONING_INTERFACE=eth1 ./foreman_server.sh 2&gt;&amp;1 | tee /root/foreman_server.out
</codeblock>

    <p/>

    <p>The Foreman installation can take a while.</p>

    <p>After Foreman is installed, the Foreman interface can be accessed using
    a web browser.</p>

    <p>The information within the Foreman interface may not be complete until
    the puppet agent on the Foreman server runs.</p>

    <p>Waiting for the puppet agent to run can take up to 30 minutes. The
    agent can be manually run to speed up the process.</p>

    <codeblock># puppet agent -t</codeblock>

    <p/>

    <section><title>1.5.Foreman Password</title>The Foreman installer creates
    a random password for the admin user. This password may no be displayed
    during installation, but can be reset using the foreman-rake
    permission:reset command.</section>

    <codeblock># foreman-rake permissions:reset
Reset to user: admin, password: 9FjczR82BtrNUX8y</codeblock>

    <p/>

    <p>Once known, the password can be set to a password of your choosing by
    logging into the Foreman interface using the admin account and generated
    password.</p>

    <ul>
      <li>Select the Admin User dropdown on the top right of the window.</li>

      <li>Enter a new password of your choosing in the Password and Verify
      fields.</li>

      <li>Select Submit</li>
    </ul>

    <p/>

    <p>After resetting the Foreman password, make sure the options.password
    entry in the
    /usr/share/openstack-foreman-installer/bin/quickstack_defaults.rb file is
    set correctly.</p>

    <codeblock>options.password = '9FjczR82BtrNUX8y'
options.username = 'admin'</codeblock>

    <p/>

    <section><title>1.6 Next Steps</title>After the Foreman virtual machine is
    installed and the Foreman installer is executed, the Foreman instance must
    be configured for the environment.</section>

    <p>Follow the applicable Foreman Configuration Guide. </p>

    <p/>

    <section><title>2 deploy-foreman-vm.sh</title></section>

    <codeblock>#! /bin/bash

[[ ${#@} != 2 ]] &amp;&amp; echo "This script requires two parameters, a configuration file as the first parameter and the location of the installation ISO as the second parameter." &amp;&amp; exit

cfg_file=$1
location=$2

cat &lt;&lt;'EOFKS' &gt; /tmp/foreman.ks

install
text
cdrom
reboot

# Partitioning
zerombr
clearpart --all
bootloader --location=mbr

part /boot --fstype=ext4 --size=500
part pv.01 --size=8192 --grow

volgroup VolGroup --pesize=4096 pv.01

logvol / --fstype=ext4 --name=lv_root --vgname=VolGroup --grow --size=1024
logvol swap --name=lv_swap --vgname=VolGroup --size=1024

%include /tmp/ks_include.txt

keyboard us
lang en_US.UTF-8

auth --enableshadow --passalgo=sha512

skipx
firstboot --disable

%packages
@base
@core
@fonts
@input-methods
@internet-browser
@remote-desktop-clients
ntp
ntpdate
%end

%pre --log /tmp/foreman-pre.log
EOFKS

{
ntp=``

while read iface ip mask bridge
do
flag=``

[[ ${iface} == rootpassword ]] &amp;&amp; echo "echo rootpw ${ip} &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_include.txt"
[[ ${iface} == timezone ]] &amp;&amp; echo "echo timezone ${ip} --utc &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_include.txt"

[[ ${iface} == hostname ]] &amp;&amp; {
HostName=${ip}
echo "echo HostName=${ip} &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_post_include.txt"
}

[[ ${iface} == nameserver ]] &amp;&amp; {
NameServers=${ip}
echo "echo NameServers=${ip} &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_post_include.txt"
}

[[ ${iface} == gateway ]] &amp;&amp; Gateway=${ip}

[[ ${iface} == ntpserver ]] &amp;&amp; echo "echo NTPServer=${ip} &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_post_include.txt"
[[ ${iface} == smuser ]] &amp;&amp; echo "echo SMUser=${ip} &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_post_include.txt"
[[ ${iface} == smpassword ]] &amp;&amp; echo "echo SMPassword=\'${ip}\' &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_post_include.txt"
[[ ${iface} == smpool ]] &amp;&amp; echo "echo SMPool=${ip} &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_post_include.txt"

[[ ${iface} == eth0 ]] &amp;&amp; {
echo "echo network --activate --onboot=true --noipv6 --device=${iface} --bootproto=static --ip=${ip} --netmask=${mask} --hostname=${HostName} --gateway=${Gateway} --nameserver=${NameServers} &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_include.txt"
}

[[ ${iface} == eth1 ]] &amp;&amp; {
echo "echo network --activate --onboot=true --noipv6 --device=${iface} --bootproto=static --ip=${ip} --netmask=${mask} &gt;&gt; /tmp/ks_include.txt"
}
done &lt;&lt;&lt; "$( grep -Ev "^#|^;|^\s*$" ${cfg_file} )"
} &gt;&gt; /tmp/foreman.ks

cat &lt;&lt;'EOFKS' &gt;&gt; /tmp/foreman.ks
%end

%post --nochroot --logfile /root/foreman-post.log
# Copy the files created during the %pre section to /root of the installed system for later use.
cp -v /tmp/foreman-pre.log /mnt/sysimage/root
cp -v /tmp/ks_include.txt /mnt/sysimage/root
cp -v /tmp/ks_post_include.txt /mnt/sysimage/root
%end


%post

exec &lt; /dev/tty8 &gt; /dev/tty8
chvt 8

(
# Source the variables from the %pre section
. /root/ks_post_include.txt

# Configure name resolution
for ns in ${NameServers//,/ }
do
echo "nameserver ${ns}" &gt;&gt; /etc/resolv.conf
done

echo "$( ip addr show dev eth0 | awk '/inet / { print $2 }' | sed 's/\/.*//' ) ${HostName}" &gt;&gt; /etc/hosts

echo "----------------------"
ip addr
echo "subscription-manager register --username ${SMUser} --password ********"
echo "----------------------"
subscription-manager register --username ${SMUser} --password ${SMPassword}

SMPool=``

[[ x${SMPool} = x ]] \
&amp;&amp; SMPool=$( subscription-manager list --available | awk '/OpenStack/,/Pool/ {pool = $3} END {print pool}' )

[[ -n ${SMPool} ]] \
&amp;&amp; subscription-manager attach --pool ${SMPool} \
|| ( echo "Could not find an OpenStack pool to attach to. - Auto-attaching to any pool." \
subscription-manager attach --auto
)


# Disable all enabled repositories
for repo in $( yum repolist all | awk '/enabled:/ { print $1}' )
do
yum-config-manager --disable ${repo} | grep -E "^\[|^enabled"
done

# Enable only the repositories we need
yum-config-manager --enable rhel-6-server-rpms \
rhel-6-server-openstack-foreman-rpms \
rhel-server-rhscl-6-rpms

yum -y install openstack-foreman-installer

yum -y update

# Firewall rules to allow traffic for the http, https, dns, and tftp services and tcp port 8140.
# Also accept all traffic from eth1 to pass through to eth0 and become NAT'd on the way out of eth0.

cat &lt;&lt;EOIP &gt; /etc/sysconfig/iptables
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
-A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE
COMMIT
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
-A INPUT -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p icmp -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -i eth1 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m tcp -p tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m tcp -p tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m tcp -p tcp --dport 443 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m tcp -p tcp --dport 53 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m udp -p udp --dport 53 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m udp -p udp --dport 69 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m tcp -p tcp --dport 8140 -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -p icmp -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i lo -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i eth1 -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -o eth0 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-host-prohibited
-A FORWARD -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-host-prohibited
COMMIT
EOIP


sed -i -e "s/^SELINUX=.*/SELINUX=permissive/" /etc/selinux/config

sed -i -e "/^net.ipv4.ip_forward/d" /etc/sysctl.conf
echo "net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1" &gt;&gt; /etc/sysctl.conf
sysctl -p


# Configure the ntp daemon
chkconfig ntpd on
sed -i -e "/^server /d" /etc/ntp.conf

for ntps in ${NTPServers//,/ }
do
echo "server ${ntps}" &gt;&gt; /etc/ntp.conf
done


sed -i "/^class.*'foreman'.*/aconfigure_epel_repo =&gt; false," /usr/share/openstack-foreman-installer/bin/foreman_server.sh
sed -i '/read -p/d' /usr/share/openstack-foreman-installer/bin/foreman_server.sh

) 2&gt;&amp;1 | /usr/bin/tee -a /root/foreman-posts.log

chvt 1

%end

EOFKS

[[ ! -e /store/data/images ]] &amp;&amp; mkdir -p /store/data/images

virt-install --name foreman \
--ram 4096 \
--vcpus 2 \
--hvm \
--os-type linux \
--os-variant rhel6 \
--disk /store/data/images/foreman.img,bus=virtio,size=16 \
--network bridge=public \
--network bridge=provision \
--initrd-inject /tmp/foreman.ks \
--extra-args "ks=file:/foreman.ks" \
--noautoconsole \
--graphics spice \
--autostart \
--location ${location}</codeblock>

    <p/>

    <p/>

    <p/>

    <p/>

    <p/>
  </body>
</topic>
