<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="installing_ceph_vm">
  <title>Installing the Ceph Virtual Machine</title>
  <shortdesc>To install the Ceph virtual machine:</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <ol>
      <li>Invoke the <cmdname>deploy-Ceph-vm.sh</cmdname> script.<ol id="ol_sp4_53s_lq">
          <li>Pass <codeph><b>ceph.cfg</b></codeph> as the first parameter.</li>
          <li>Pass the <b>full path to the Red Hat Enterprise Server 6 Installation media</b> as the
            second
            option.<codeblock># ./deploy-ceph-vm.sh ceph.cfg /store/data/iso/rhel-server-7.0-x86_64-dvd.iso

Starting install...
Retrieving file .treeinfo...
| 3.2 kB  00:00:00
Retrieving file vmlinuz...
| 7.9 MB  00:00:00
Retrieving file initrd.img...
|  64 MB  00:00:00
Creating storage file ceph.img
|  16 GB  00:00:00
Creating domain...
|    0 B  00:00:00
Domain installation still in progress. You can reconnect to
the console to complete the installation process.</codeblock><p>The installation begins, but no console is displayed.</p></li>
        </ol></li>
      <li> To display the console:<ol id="ol_gnf_fks_lq">
          <li>Ensure you are logged into a GUI environment.</li>
          <li>Open a terminal.</li>
        <li>Enter the following command:<codeblock># virt-viewer ceph</codeblock><note>If you are connected to the Foreman server using a Windows system, you need to install <b>Xwin Server</b> before executing <cmdname>virt-viewer ceph</cmdname>.</note></li>
      </ol><p>A console for the Ceph virtual machine will open.
        After the virtual machine completes the installation, it will power itself off.</p></li>
      <li>You can view the power state of the virtual machine by entering the following command:<codeblock># virsh list --all</codeblock><p>You will see output similar to the following:</p><codeblock>Id    Name                           State
 ----------------------------------------------------
 2     ceph                        running</codeblock></li>
      <li>You can start the virtual machine by entering the following command:<codeblock># virsh start ceph</codeblock></li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
