<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="installing_foreman_vm">
  <title>Installing the Foreman Virtual Machine</title>

  <shortdesc>To install the Foreman virtual machine:</shortdesc>

  <body>
    <ol>
      <li>To install the Foreman virtual machine, invoke the
      deploy-foreman-vm.sh script. Pass foreman.cfg as the first parameter and
      the full path to the Red Hat Enterprise Server 6 Installation media as
      the second option.<p/><codeblock># ./deploy-foreman-vm.sh foreman.cfg /store/data/iso/rhel-server-6.5-x86_64-
dvd.iso
Starting install...
Retrieving file .treeinfo...
| 3.2 kB 00:00:00
Retrieving file vmlinuz...
| 7.9 MB 00:00:00
Retrieving file initrd.img...
| 64 MB 00:00:00
Creating storage file foreman.img
| 16 GB 00:00:00
Creating domain...
| 0 B 00:00:00
Domain installation still in progress. You can reconnect to
the console to complete the installation process.
</codeblock></li>

      <li>The installation will begin, but no console will be displayed. To
      display the console, make sure you are logged into a GUI environment,
      open a terminal and type <b>virt-viewer foreman</b>. </li>

      <li>Note that if you are connected to the Foreman server using a Windows
      system, you need to install <b>Xwin Server</b> before executing
      <b>virt-viewer foreman</b>. </li>

      <li>A console for the Foreman virtual machine will open. </li>

      <li>After the virtual machine completes the installation, it will power
      itself off. </li>

      <li>The power state of the virtual machine can be viewed using the
      <b>virsh list --all</b> command.<codeblock> Id Name State
 ----------------------------------------------------
 2 foreman running</codeblock></li>

      <li>The virtual machine can be started using the following
      command:<codeblock># virsh start foreman</codeblock><p/></li>
    </ol>

    <section><title>Installing Foreman</title><ol>
        <li>To install Foreman, log into the Foreman virtual machine and
        execute the foreman_server.sh script that is located in the
        <i>/usr/share/openstack-foreman-installer/bin</i> directory. </li>

        <li>You must execute the script from the
        <i>/usr/share/openstack-foreman-installer/bin</i> directory. The
        <b>FOREMAN_PROVISIONING, FOREMAN_GATEWAY</b><b>,</b>
        and<b>PROVISIONING_INTERFACE</b> variables should also be set.</li>

        <li><table colsep="1" frame="all" id="table_foreman_install_variables"
            rowsep="1">
            <title>Foreman VM Installation Variables</title>

            <tgroup cols="2">
              <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>

              <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>

              <thead>
                <row>
                  <entry>Variable</entry>

                  <entry>Description</entry>
                </row>
              </thead>

              <tbody>
                <row>
                  <entry><varname>FOREMAN_PROVISIONING</varname></entry>

                  <entry>Provisioning is enabled if set to
                  <i>true</i>.</entry>
                </row>

                <row>
                  <entry><varname>FOREMAN_GATEWAY</varname></entry>

                  <entry>This defines the gateway of the provisioned hosts.
                  Set it to the <i>IP address of the Foreman server's
                  provisioning interface</i> if the Foreman server will act as
                  a gateway.</entry>
                </row>

                <row>
                  <entry><varname>PROVISIONING_INTERFACE</varname></entry>

                  <entry>The interface used for provisioning.</entry>
                </row>
              </tbody>
            </tgroup>
          </table><p><codeblock># cd /usr/share/openstack-foreman-installer/bin
# FOREMAN_PROVISIONING=true FOREMAN_GATEWAY=172.44.139.65
PROVISIONING_INTERFACE=eth1 ./foreman_server.sh 2&gt;&amp;1 | tee /root/foreman_server.out</codeblock><note>The
        Foreman installation can take a while.</note></p></li>

        <li>After Foreman is installed, you can access the Foreman interface
        using a web browser.<p>The information within the Foreman interface
        may not be complete until the puppet agent on the Foreman server
        runs.</p></li>

        <li>The puppet agent can take up to 30 minutes to run. The agent can
        be manually run to speed up the process:<codeblock># puppet agent -t</codeblock></li>
      </ol></section>
  </body>
</topic>
