<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dell_force10_s55_s60_s4810_configs">
  <title>Configuring the Dell Force 10 S55/S60/S4810</title>
  <shortdesc>Follow the steps outlined to setup your network.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <ol>
      <li>Create a planning spreadsheet that identifies each port on each switch, how they are
        connected to the servers and what vLANs need to be tagged or untagged.<ol id="ol_gy4_2hp_yq">
          <li>Using your planning sheet and vLAN information, mark which vLAN is either untagged or
            tagged, for each connected port. Not all vLANs will be used on each port.</li>
        </ol></li>
      <li>Using the planning spreadsheet you can now create your configuration:<ol
          id="ol_xzh_3hp_yq">
        <li>Individual Port Config Example for S55 or S60<codeblock>no ip address
portmode hybrid
switchport
spanning-tree rstp edge-port</codeblock></li>
          <li>Individual Port Config example for S4810<codeblock>no ip address
portmode hybrid
switchport
flowcontrol rx on tx off
spanning-tree rstp edge-port</codeblock></li>
          <li>Configuring vLANs. With option “portmode hybrid” on each port, you can program one
            vLAN to be untagged and other vLANs as tagged. This will send all untagged traffic to
            the vLAN that is marked untagged. For example, DHCP Request will be placed on that vLAN,
            and a DHCP server listening on that vLAN will be able to respond.<p>Example vLAN config
              with overlapping tagged and untagged
              ports:<codeblock>Int vlan 100
no ip address
! From your Spread Sheet
tagged TenGigabitEthernet 0/1 - 47
untagged TenGigabitEthernet 0/0
!
int vlan 200
tagged TenGigabitEthernet 0/0-47
int vlan 300
untagged TenGigabitEther 0/1-10
!
!
int vlan 300
tagged TenGigabitEthernet 0/0-47
int vlan 300
untagged TenGigabitEther 0/1-10
!</codeblock></p></li>
          <li>General switch options for the S55/S60 and
            S4810:<codeblock>!
hostname YOUR_HOSTNAME
!
username Tome password 7 MYpassword 1 privilege 15
!
protocol spanning-tree rstp
no disable
hello-time 1
max-age 6
forward-delay 4
bridge-priority 16384 ! no ip telnet server enable
!
arp learn-enable
!
clock timezone EST -5
!
ip ssh server enable
!
protocol lldp
advertise dot1-tlv port-protocol-vlan-id
advertise dot3-tlv max-frame-size
advertise management-tlv system-description system-name
advertise med
no disable
!
reload-type normal-reload
!</codeblock></li>
          <li>Create a VLT Domain on the
            S4810:<codeblock>!
vlt domain 899
peer-link port-channel 100
primary-priority 4096
unit-id 0
!
!
interface Port-channel 100
description Connection to VLT peer
no ip address
channel-member fortyGigE 0/48
no shutdown
!</codeblock></li>
        </ol></li>
    </ol>
    <note>You do not need to add the <codeph>port-channel</codeph> or the <codeph>vlt</codeph> to a
      vLAN. All vLANs will be used on it.</note>
  </body>
</topic>
