<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="openstack_components">
  <title>OpenStack Components</title>
  <body>
    <p>The following component descriptions are from the OpenStack Foundation website. Extensive
      documentation for the OpenStack components is available at<xref
        href="http://www.openstack.org" format="html" scope="external">
        http://docs.openstack.org/</xref>.</p>
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="openstack_components">
      <title>OpenStack Components</title>
      <tgroup cols="3">
        <colspec colname="function" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
        <colspec colname="codename" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
        <colspec colname="description" colnum="3" colwidth="4*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Function</entry>
            <entry>Code Name</entry>
            <entry>Description</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Identity</entry>
            <entry>Keystone</entry>
            <entry><xref href="http://www.OpenStack.org/software/OpenStack-shared-services/"
                format="html" scope="external">Identity Service</xref> provides a central directory
              of users mapped to the OpenStack services they can access. It acts as a common
              authentication system across the cloud operating system and can integrate with
              existing backend directory services.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Dashboard/Portal</entry>
            <entry>Horizon</entry>
            <entry><xref href="http://www.OpenStack.org/software/OpenStack-dashboard/" format="html"
                scope="external">OpenStack Dashboard</xref> provides administrators and users a
              graphical interface to access, provision and automate cloud-based resources. The
              extensible design makes it easy to plug in and expose third party products and
              services.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Compute/IaaS</entry>
            <entry>Nova</entry>
            <entry><xref href="http://www.OpenStack.org/software/OpenStack-compute/" format="html"
                scope="external">OpenStack Compute</xref> is open source software designed to
              provision and manage large networks of virtual machines, creating a redundant and
              scalable cloud computing platform. It gives you the software, control panels, and APIs
              required to orchestrate a cloud, including running instances, managing networks, and
              controlling access through users and projects. OpenStack Compute strives to be both
              hardware and hypervisor agnostic, currently supporting a variety of standard hardware
              configurations and seven major hypervisors.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Virtual Images</entry>
            <entry>Glance</entry>
            <entry><xref href="http://www.OpenStack.org/software/OpenStack-shared-services/"
                format="html" scope="external">OpenStack Image Service</xref> provides discovery,
              registration, and delivery services for virtual disk images. The Image Service API
              server provides a standard REST interface for querying information about virtual disk
              images stored in a variety of back-end stores, including OpenStack Object Storage.
              Clients can register new virtual disk images with the Image Service, query for
              information on publicly available disk images, and use the Image Service’s client
              library for streaming virtual disk images.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Block Storage</entry>
            <entry>Cinder</entry>
            <entry><xref href="http://www.OpenStack.org/software/OpenStack-storage/" format="html"
                scope="external">OpenStack Block Storage</xref> provides persistent block level
              storage devices for use with OpenStack compute instances. The block storage system
              manages the creation, attaching and detaching of the block devices to servers. Block
              storage volumes are fully integrated into OpenStack Compute and the Dashboard enabling
              cloud users to manage their own storage needs. In addition to using simple <tm
                tmtype="reg" trademark="Linux">Linux</tm> server storage, it has unified storage
              support for numerous storage devices. <p>Block storage is appropriate for performance
                sensitive scenarios such as database storage, expandable file systems, or providing
                a server with access to raw block level storage. Snapshot management provides
                powerful functionality for backing up data stored on block storage volumes.
                Snapshots can be restored or used to create a new block storage volume.</p></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Networking</entry>
            <entry>Neutron</entry>
            <entry><xref href="http://www.OpenStack.org/software/OpenStack-networking/"
                format="html" scope="external">OpenStack Networking</xref> is a pluggable, scalable
              and API-driven system for managing networks and IP addresses. Like other aspects of
              the cloud operating system, it can be used by administrators and users to increase the
              value of existing datacenter assets. OpenStack Networking ensures the network will not
              be the bottleneck or limiting factor in a cloud deployment and gives users real
              self-service, even over their network configurations.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Telemetry</entry>
            <entry>Ceilometer</entry>
            <entry><xref href="https://www.OpenStack.org/software/OpenStack-shared-services/"
                format="html" scope="external">OpenStack Telemetry</xref> aggregates usage and
              performance data across the services deployed in an OpenStack cloud. This powerful
              capability provides visibility and insight into the usage of the cloud across dozens
              of data points and enables cloud operators to view metrics globally or by individual
              deployed resources.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Orchestration</entry>
            <entry>Heat</entry>
            <entry><xref href="https://www.OpenStack.org/software/OpenStack-shared-services/"
                format="html" scope="external">OpenStack Orchestration</xref> is a template-driven
              engine that enables application developers to describe and automate the deployment of
              infrastructure. The flexible template language can specify compute, storage and
              networking configurations as well as detailed post-deployment activity to automate the
              full provisioning of infrastructure as well as services and applications. Through
              integration with the Telemetry service, the Orchestration engine can also perform
              auto-scaling of certain infrastructure elements.</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>

  </body>

  <topic id="rhel_osp_platform" conref="rhel_osp_platform.dita#rhel_osp_platform">
    <title/>
  </topic>

</topic>
