<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="rhel_osp_platform">
  <title>Red Hat Enterprise Linux OpenStack Platform 6.0</title>
  <body>
    <p>Red Hat Enterprise Linux OpenStack Platform delivers an integrated foundation to create,
      deploy, and scale a secure and reliable public or private OpenStack cloud. It delivers a cloud
      platform built from Red Hat OpenStack technology, co-engineered and integrated with Red Hat
      Enterprise Linux, giving you the agility to scale and quickly meet customer demands without
      compromising on availability, security, or performance.</p>
    <p>Red Hat Enterprise Linux OpenStack Platform is purposely designed with the recognition of the
      unique dependencies OpenStack has on the underlying Linux it's installed on. Red Hat uniquely
      co-engineers and integrates Red Hat OpenStack technology with Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7,
      ensuring a stable, production-ready cloud platform.. Version 6 boasts all the core features
      and functions of the community Juno release, adds some additional innovations by Red Hat,
      resulting in a hardened, stable cloud platform.</p>
    <p>Specifically, Red Hat Enterprise Linux OpenStack Platform 6 includes the latest features and
      functionality found in the Juno compute, networking, and storage services. In addition,
      version 6 adds networking enhancements that include IPv6 support, single root I/O virtual
      (SR-IOV) networking support, and expands Neutron high availability support to a full
      “active-active” mode configuration, improving network service uptime for larger-scale
      production environments. Additionally, improvements have been made to the installation and
      configuration tools, including support multi-LDAP backends and domains within a single
      Identity service node, easing the deployment integration process. Version 6 also includes Ceph
      storage clients, adding new compute (Nova) and block (Cinder) storage capabilities that enable
      'diskless' compute nodes and near instantaneous booting of new VMs. Finally, version 6 now
      fully supports the data processing service, Sahara, providing a certified platform to
      seamlessly run big data Hadoop workloads.  As always, Red Hat maintains an effort to provide an
      optional complete cloud infrastructure stack to customers, integrating with Red Hat CloudForms
      for unified hybrid operations management over both Red Hat and non-Red Hat solutions, as well
      as Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization, for customers who are looking for an alternative
      scale-up virtual infrastructure.</p>
  </body>

  <topic id="key_benefits" conref="key_benefits.dita#key_benefits">
    <title/>
  </topic>

</topic>
