<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="server_nodes">
  <title>Server Nodes</title>
  <shortdesc>Server connections to the network switches can be one of four possible configurations:</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <ol>
      <li>Active-Active LAG in load-balance bond formation</li>
      <li>Active-Backup in failover/failback formation</li>
      <li>Active-Active round robin, based upon gratuitous ARP</li>
      <li>Single port</li>
    </ol>
    <p>In the first case the connectivity on the switch side must be in a LAG (or port-channel). In
      cases 2 and 3, Dell recommends that you do the configuration as a LAG but the ports should
      still be part of the same layer-2 domain. In some cases all members of the LAG connect to a
      single ToR switch. In others the LAG splits into two ToR switches. This is an optional setup
      as OpenStack has redundancy built into the application. </p>
    <p>The teaming configuration that Dell recommends is <codeph>balance-tlb</codeph> (mode = 5).
      Other Modes such as <codeph>balance-rr</codeph>(mode=0) or
      <codeph>balance-alb</codeph>(mode=6) are not supported by OpenStack, and thus only
        <codeph>balance-tlb</codeph> is supported. This configuration setting is explained in
      greater deal in the <i>Dell Red Hat Cloud Solutions Deployment Guide</i>. Please contact your
      sales representative for a copy of that document.</p>
    <p>A single port is an option, it is not used in the solution. The need to eliminate single
      points of failure is taken into consideration as part of the design and this option has been
      elimnated where possible.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
