<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="storage_options">
    <title>Storage Options</title>
    <body>
        <p>OpenStack has several storage services, including Cinder, Glance, and Swift. Together
            these services provide VM with block, image, and object storage. In turn, the services
            employ block and object storage subsystems.</p>
        <p>Cinder virtualizes storage enabling VM's to use persistent block storage through Nova.
            OpenStack consumers should write data that must exist beyond the lifecycle of the guest
            to Cinder volumes. The volume can be accessed afterwards by a different guest.</p>
        <p>Glance provides images to VM's. Generally, the the images are block devices containing
            DVDs or virtual machines. VM's be booted from these images or have the images attached
            to them. </p>
        <p><?oxy_comment_start author="Randy_Perryman" timestamp="20150209T141937-0500" comment="Needs to be reworked/reworded
"?>Swift
            provides an object storage interface to VM's and other OpenStack consumers. Unlike block
            storage where the guest is provided a block device of a given format and is accessible
            within the cluster, object storage is not provided through the guest. Object storage is
            generally implemented as a HTTP/HTTPs based service. As such, client implementations
            within the guest or external OpenStack clients would interact with Swift without any
            configuration required of the guest other than providing the requisite network access.
            For example, VM within OpenStack can put data into Swift and later external clients
            could pull that data for additional processing. <?oxy_comment_end?></p>
        <p>As with other OpenStack services, there is a client and server components for each of these. 
    The server component can be modified to use a particular type of storage rather than the default. 
    For example, Cinder uses local disks as the storage back-end by default. This solution modifies 
    the default configuration for these services. </p>
        <p>This solution include three Cinder back-end options to enable the cluster to fit many needs:</p>
        <ul>
            <li>Ceph</li>
            <li>Dell EqualLogic Storage Arrays</li>
            <li>Cinder Multi-Backend Support</li>
        </ul>
        <p>This solution provides Ceph as the back-end for Glance, Block and Object stores.</p>
    </body>

    <topic id="ceph" conref="ceph.dita#ceph">
        <title/>
    </topic>

    <topic id="dell_equallogic" conref="dell_equallogic.dita#dell_equallogic">
        <title/>
    </topic>

    <topic id="multi_backend_support" conref="multi_backend_support.dita#multi_backend_support">
        <title/>
    </topic>

</topic>
