<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="vlans">
  <title>vLANs</title>
  <shortdesc>This Reference Architecture implements at a minimum eight (8) separate
    vLANs:</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <ul>
      <li><b>Management/Out of Band (OOB) Network</b> - iDRAC connections can be routed to external network. All OpenStack HA controllers need direct access to this for IPMI operations.</li>
      <li><b>Nova Network Private vLAN</b> - Sets up the backend network for nova and the VMs to use.</li>
      <li><b>Nova Network Public vLAN</b> - Sets up the front network for routable traffic to individual VMs.</li>
      <li><b>Provisioning Network vLAN</b> - Connects all nodes NICs into the fabric used for setup
        and provisioning of the OpenStack servers.</li>
      <li><b>Private API Network Cluster Management vLAN</b> - Used for communication between OS controllers and nodes for RESTFUL API and Cluster Heartbeat.</li>
      <li><b>Public API Network Access vLAN</b> - Sets up access to the RESTful API, and the Horizon
        GUI.</li>
      <li><b>Storage Network vLAN</b> - Used by all the nodes for the data plane reads/writes to
        communicate to OS storage, used for setup and provisiong of the Ceph Storage Cluster, and
        when included, the EqualLogic Arrays.</li>
      <li><b>Storage Clustering Network vLAN</b> - Used by all the storage nodes for replication and data checks (for Ceph Clustering).</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>
