<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="configure_controller_node_parameters">
  <title>Configure Controller Node-Specific Parameters</title>
  <shortdesc>A few items should be set using the Foreman user interface. These include:</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_snl_xwl_jq">
        <title>Controller Node-Specific Parameters</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Parameter</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><parmname>quickstack::pacemaker::common</parmname></entry>
              <entry>fence_ipmilan_address </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><parmname>quickstack::pacemaker::common</parmname></entry>
              <entry>fence_ipmilan_username</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><parmname>quickstack::pacemaker::common</parmname></entry>
              <entry>fence_ipmilan_password</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><parmname>quickstack::pacemaker::params::private_ip</parmname></entry>
              <entry>IP address of the controller's NIC on the Private API network.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </p>
    <ol>
      <li>Set the <parmname>fence_ipmilan_*</parmname> parameters to the IP address and
        authentication credentials for the node's iDRAC.<ol id="ol_krx_sxl_jq">
          <li>Log into the Foreman UI.</li>
          <li>Select the <b>Hosts</b> dropdown at the top of the window.</li>
          <li>Select <b>All Hosts</b>. </li>
          <li>Select the <b>first controller</b>, and then select <b>Edit</b> on the next screen. </li>
          <li>Select the <b>Parameters</b> tab.</li>
          <li>Locate each of the parameters that require changes, and then select the
              <b>Override</b> button to the right.</li>
          <li>Scroll down to the bottom of the window, and then enter the appropriate value for each
            of the overridden parameters.</li>
          <li>Select the <b>Submit</b> button.</li>
        </ol></li>
      <li>Repeat the above steps for each of the controller nodes.</li>
      <li>Once the hostgroup is applied to all the controllers, log into each of the controller nodes.</li>
      <li> Execute the following command to pull the hostgroup configuration:<codeblock># puppet agent -t -dv |&amp; tee /root/puppet.out</codeblock><p>This command pipes a copy of the output to the <codeph>/root/puppet.out</codeph> file for later review.</p></li>
      <li>Watch the output, or review the <codeph>/root/puppet.out</codeph> file, for errors.</li>
    </ol>
  </body>
  
  <topic id="enable_servicesp" conref="enable_services.dita#enable_services">
    <title/>
  </topic>
  
</topic>
