<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="dell_pilot_deploy">
  <title>Dell Pilot Deployment Guide</title>

  <body>
    <p/>

    <section><title>Configure Foreman Server</title><p>If the provisioning
    interface on the provisioned host is not the first interface returned in
    the puppet data, Foreman will overwrite the configuration in the database.
    This can cause issues later. To prevent Foreman from changing the IP and
    MAC information to reflect the puppet data, change the
    <b>ignore_puppet_facts_for_provisioning</b> setting<ol>
        <li>Log into the Foreman user interface.</li>

        <li>Move the mouse over the Administer drop down menu on the right
        side of the interface.</li>

        <li>Select Settings from the menu.</li>

        <li>Select the Provisioning tab.</li>

        <li>Select Value for the<b> ignore_puppet_facts_for_provisioning</b>
        setting. <ul>
            <li>Change this setting to true.</li>
          </ul></li>
      </ol></p></section>

    <section><title>Hammer Command Preparation</title>During the steps in this
    document, the <b>hammer</b> command is used to more easily perform the
    configurations. Usage of the hammer command requires identifiers for the
    various pieces of information stored within the Foreman server. This
    includes identifiers for the defined installation media, partitions,
    templates, hosts, as well as other items</section>

    <p>A checklist file, dell-pilot-checklist.pdf, is available to easily keep
    track of this information. Download and print the Dell Pilot Checklist
    from <b><xref format="html"
    href="https://wiki.opencrowbar.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=6326050">https://wiki.opencrowbar.org</xref></b>.</p>

    <p>Write the various information gathered and needed on the checklist for
    reference as needed.</p>

    <p>Several steps in this document use files to configure the environment.
    These files are available in a TAR file called dell-pilot-deploy.tgz. This
    TAR file is available from <b><xref format="html"
    href="https://wiki.opencrowbar.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=6326050">https://wiki.opencrowbar.org</xref></b>.</p>

    <p>Download the tarfile and unzip it into the /root/pilot directory.</p>

    <codeblock># mkdir /root/pilot
# cd /root/pilot
# tar xzvf /PATH/TO/FILE/dell-pilot-deploy.tgz
</codeblock>

    <section><lines/><title>The hammer command</title><ol>
        <li>Install the packages that contain the <b>hammer</b>
        command<codeblock># yum -y install "*hammer*"
</codeblock>This should install the following packages: <msgblock>rubygem-hammer_cli-doc-0.1.1-12.el6sat.noarch
rubygem-hammer_cli-0.1.1-12.el6sat.noarch
rubygem-hammer_cli_foreman-0.1.1-16.el6sat.noarch
rubygem-hammer_cli_foreman-doc-0.1.1-16.el6sat.noarch
</msgblock></li>

        <li>Configure the <b>hammer</b> command to display <b>200</b> items
        per page. This just makes it easier to read everything. <ul>
            <li>Replace the value for the <b>:per_page:</b> option in the
            /<b>etc/hammer/cli_config.yml</b> file.</li>
          </ul></li>

        <li>Configure the <b>hammer</b> command to not prompt for a
        username/password when connecting.<ul>
            <li>Add the following to the beginning of the
            <b>/etc/hammer/cli_config.yml </b>file. Replace the name and
            password appropriately<msgblock>:foreman:
 :username: 'admin'
 :password: 'changeme'
</msgblock></li>
          </ul></li>
      </ol><p/><title>Hammer help</title>The <b>hammer</b> command takes the
    <b>--help</b> option. This option can be used with most of its subcommands
    as well. It is useful to see the various options that can be
    used.<p/></section>

    <section><title>Configure the Installation Medium</title><p>Configure the
    installation medium that will be used to provision the hosts.</p><p>Use
    the <b>hammer medium create</b> command to add the entry.</p><p>The
    command requires the --name, --os-family and --path options.</p><p>The
    <b>name</b> option should specify a name that is appropriate for the
    installation.</p><p>The <b>os-family</b> should remain <b>Redhat</b> in
    most cases.</p><p>The <b>path</b> option specifies the path or URL to the
    installation tree</p></section>

    <section><p/><title>Satellite Server </title></section>

    <p>The path included in the example below should work with most satellite
    installation, just replace <b>SATELLITE_SERVER</b> with the appropriate<b>
    FQDN</b>.</p>

    <msgblock>hammer medium create --name "Dell OSP Pilot" --os-family Redhat \
 --path 'http://SATELLITE_SERVER/ks/dist/ks-rhel-$arch-server-$major-$version'</msgblock>

    <section><lines/><title>Local ISO on Foreman Node </title></section>

    <ol>
      <li>mkdir /usr/share/foreman/public/iso</li>

      <li>Copy the RHEL7 iso to the /root directory of the foreman node</li>

      <li>Edit /etc/fstab</li>

      <li>Add the following line to the end: <msgblock>/root/RHEL-7.0-Server-x86_64-dvd.iso /usr/share/foreman/public/iso iso9660 loop,ro 0 0</msgblock></li>

      <li>mount –a<msgblock>hammer medium create --name "Dell OSP Pilot" --os-family Redhat \
 --path 'http://FOREMAN_SERVER/iso'
</msgblock></li>
    </ol>

    <section><lines/><title>Local ISO on Solution Admin Host</title><ol>
        <li>On the Solution Admin Host:<ol outputclass="lower-alpha">
            <li>yum install httpd</li>

            <li>Configure httpd with any options you want. Defaults will work,
            but are not secure.</li>

            <li>copy the ISO to the SAH in /store/data/iso</li>

            <li>"mount -o loop ISO NAME /mnt"</li>

            <li>"mkdir /store/data/iso/RHEL6.5" (Name of the OS)</li>

            <li>"rsync -av /mnt/ /store/data/iso/RHEL6.5"</li>

            <li>"umount /mnt"</li>

            <li>"ln -s /store/data/iso/RHEL6.5 RHEL6.5"</li>
          </ol></li>

        <li>Validate the web interface works<codeblock>http://ipaddress of foreman/RHEL6.5/README</codeblock></li>
      </ol></section>

    <p>Configure the installation medium that will be used to provision the
    hosts.</p>

    <section><lines/><title>Note the Medium ID</title></section>

    <p>After the medium is created, execute the <b>hammer medium list</b>
    command.</p>

    <p>Take note of the <b>ID</b> (first column) for the newly created medium.
    This will be needed later</p>

    <section><lines/><title>Configure the Partition Table </title></section>

    <p>Configure the partition table that the provisioned hosts will use.
    These partition table is provided in the following file.</p>

    <p>dell-pilot.partition Partition table for the nodes.</p>

    <p>Use the h<b>ammer partition-table create</b> command to install the
    partition table. Specify an appropriate <b>NAME</b> for each partition
    table and specify the file that contains the data.</p>

    <msgblock># hammer partition-table create --name dell-pilot --os-family Redhat \ --file /root/pilot/dell-pilot.partition </msgblock>

    <p/>

    <p>After the partition table is created, execute the <b>hammer
    partition-table list</b> command.</p>

    <p>Take note of the ID of the newly created partition table.</p>

    <section><lines/><title>Configure the Operating System </title></section>

    <p>A definition for the Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.0 operating system must
    be created.</p>

    <p>Create a new operating system definition for Red Hat Enterprise Linux
    7.0.</p>

    <p>Use the <b>hammer os create</b> command to create the definition.</p>

    <msgblock># hammer os create --name "RedHat" --major 7 --minor 0 --family Redhat </msgblock>

    <p/>

    <p>After creating the operating system, execute the <b>hammer os list</b>
    command.</p>

    <p>Take note of the ID for the new RedHat 7.0 operating system.</p>

    <p>Associate the x86_64 architecture with the RedHat 7.0 operating
    system.</p>

    <p>Execute the<b> hammer os add-architecture</b> command to do this.</p>

    <codeblock>hammer os add-architecture --architecture x86_64 --id OS_ID </codeblock>

    <p/>

    <p>The appropriate partition table needs to be associated with the
    operating system.</p>

    <p>Use the <b>hammer os add-ptable</b> command to associate the partition
    table to the operating system Id.</p>

    <codeblock>hammer os add-ptable --ptable-id P_ID --id OS_ID</codeblock>

    <section><lines/><title>Configure Subnets </title></section>

    <p>A subnet called OpenStack was created automatically during
    installation. Execute<b> hammer subnet lis</b>t and note the ID of this
    subnet.</p>

    <msgblock># hammer subnet list </msgblock>

    <p/>

    <p>IP addresses can be automatically assigned to newly provisioned hosts
    from this subnet. To do this, a range of IPs to assign must be
    defined.</p>

    <p>Use the <b>hammer subnet update</b> command to assign the range of IP
    addresses and to also set the default gateway for the provisioned
    hosts.</p>

    <p>If the foreman server is acting as the gateway, the gateway address is
    the IP address of the Foreman servers provisioning interface.</p>

    <msgblock># hammer subnet update --id SN_ID --from START_IP_RANGE --to END_IP_RANGE \ --gateway GATEWAY_IP </msgblock>

    <section><lines/><title>Configure Templates </title></section>

    <p>Four template files are provided and used to provision hosts.</p>

    <simpletable relcolwidth="249* 751*">
      <strow>
        <stentry>dell-osp-ks.template</stentry>

        <stentry>Provisioning template that provides the kickstart
        file.</stentry>
      </strow>

      <strow>
        <stentry>dell-osp-pxe.template</stentry>

        <stentry>PXE template that contains the PXE configuration.</stentry>
      </strow>

      <strow>
        <stentry>interface_config.template</stentry>

        <stentry>Snippet that provides a means to configure extra interfaces
        during installation. This template is called from the kickstart
        template.</stentry>
      </strow>

      <strow>
        <stentry>bonding_snippet.template</stentry>

        <stentry>Snippet that provides a means to bond interfaces during
        installation. This template is called from the kickstart
        template.</stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>

    <p>Create the templates using the <b>hammer template create</b>
    command.</p>

    <msgblock># hammer template create --name "Dell OpenStack Kickstart Template" --type provision \
 --operatingsystem-ids "OS_ID_RH7.0" --file /root/pilot/dell-osp-ks.template
# hammer template create --name "Dell OpenStack PXE Template" --type PXELinux \
 --operatingsystem-ids "OS_ID_RH7.0" --file /root/pilot/dell-osp-pxe.template
# hammer template create --name "bond_interfaces" --type snippet \
 --file /root/pilot/bonding_snippet.template
# hammer template create --name "interface_config" --type snippet \
 --file /root/pilot/interface_config.template
</msgblock>

    <p>After the templates are created, use the <b>hammer template list</b>
    command to determine the IDs of the templates.</p>

    <p>The provisioning and PXE templates must be associated with the
    operating systems. Use the <b>hammer os update</b> command to update the
    template associations.</p>

    <p>Execute the following command for the RedHat 7.0 operating system ID.
    This command also associates the installation medium to the operating
    system.</p>

    <msgblock># hammer os update --config-template-ids "KS_ID, PXE_ID" \
 --medium-ids MEDIUM_ID --id OS_ID</msgblock>

    <p>The templates are now associated with the operating system, they must
    now be set as the default templates for the operating systems.</p>

    <p>Execute the<b> hammer os set-default</b> template command for the
    provisioning and PXELinux templates. The command will be executed two
    times.</p>

    <msgblock># hammer os set-default-template --config-template-id TMPLT_ID --id OS_ID
</msgblock>

    <p>The <b>hammer os info</b> command can be used to check the
    configuration of the operating systems.</p>

    <msgblock># hammer os info --id 1
Id: 1
Full name: RedHat 7.0
Release name:
Family: Redhat
Name: RedHat
Major version: 7
Minor version: 0
Partition tables:
Default templates:
 Dell OpenStack Kickstart Template (provision)
 Dell OpenStack PXE Template (PXELinux)
Architectures:
Page 5 of 23Gather More Information
Configure facts updates
Installation media:
 Red Hat Satellite
Templates:
 Dell OpenStack Kickstart Template (provision)
 Dell OpenStack PXE Template (PXELinux)
Parameters:</msgblock>

    <section><lines/><title>Gather More Information </title></section>

    <p>A few more IDs are required in order to install a host. Execute the
    following commands and take note of the <b>appropriate IDs</b>.</p>

    <ul>
      <li>Environments<msgblock># hammer environment list</msgblock></li>

      <li>Domains<msgblock># hammer domain list</msgblock></li>

      <li>Puppet Proxy<msgblock># hammer proxy list</msgblock></li>

      <li>Architectures<msgblock># hammer architecture list</msgblock></li>
    </ul>

    <section><lines/><title>Configure facts updates </title></section>

    <section><title>Configure facts updates</title><p>Foreman updates the host
    information using the Puppet facts. Foreman updates the provisioning
    information with the first interface returned from the Puppet facts. To
    prevent this, perform the following steps. </p></section>

    <ol>
      <li>Log into the Foreman UI.</li>

      <li>Select the <b>Administer</b> drop down on the top right of the
      window.</li>

      <li>Select <b>Settings</b>. Select the <b>Provisioning</b> tab.</li>

      <li>Edit the ignore_puppet_facts_for_provisioning setting and set it to
      true.</li>
    </ol>

    <section><lines/><title>Configure the Operating System for Updates.
    </title></section>

    <section><title>Configure the Operating System for Updates.
    </title><p>Configure the Operating system definition with the parameters
    for registering the provisioned host for updates. The <b>hammer os
    set-parameter</b> command is used to set the parameters. </p></section>

    <p>The following parameters are set.</p>

    <simpletable relcolwidth="256* 744*">
      <strow>
        <stentry>subscription_manager</stentry>

        <stentry>Specifies that the hosts will register with Subscription
        Manager. (true or false)</stentry>
      </strow>

      <strow>
        <stentry>subscription_manager_username</stentry>

        <stentry>The username of the Subscription Manager account to register
        to.</stentry>
      </strow>

      <strow>
        <stentry>subscription_manager_password</stentry>

        <stentry>The password for the Subscription Manager account.</stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>

    <section><p>Define the <b>OS_ID</b> variable to the ID of the operating
    system then execute the remaining commands.</p><p>Make sure to specify the
    appropriate <b>username, password</b>, and <b>pool ID</b> by replacing the
    <b>CHANGEME's</b> and <b>POOL_ID.</b></p><msgblock># OS_ID=2
# hammer os set-parameter --operatingsystem-id ${OS_ID} \
 --name subscription_manager --value true
# hammer os set-parameter --operatingsystem-id ${OS_ID} \
 --name subscription_manager_username --value CHANGEME
# hammer os set-parameter --operatingsystem-id ${OS_ID} \
 --name subscription_manager_password --value 'CHANGEME'</msgblock><lines/><title>Optional
    Proxy Settings </title><p>Proxy settings for the subscription-manager and
    yum commands can be set by defining the needed parameters. These
    parameters are completely optional if not needed.</p><p>Although defining
    and using the following parameters will work for most environments, they
    may not work for all. Setting the parameters gives the provisioning
    template the information to set the proxy information using the
    subscription-manager config command.</p><p>If these setting do not work in
    your environment, the kickstart file may need to be manually modified.
    This can be done using the Foreman user interface.. </p><p>The following
    parameters can be set using the <b>hammer os set-parameter</b> command as
    above.</p><simpletable relcolwidth="271* 729*">
        <strow>
          <stentry>subscription_manager_proxy</stentry>

          <stentry>The proxy server to use, if needed.</stentry>
        </strow>

        <strow>
          <stentry>subscription_manager_proxy_port</stentry>

          <stentry>The proxy port to use, if needed.</stentry>
        </strow>

        <strow>
          <stentry>subscription_manager_proxy_user</stentry>

          <stentry>The proxy username, if needed.</stentry>
        </strow>

        <strow>
          <stentry>subscription_manager_proxy_password</stentry>

          <stentry>The proxy username password, if needed.</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable></section>

    <section><lines/><title>Provisioning the Nodes </title></section>

    <p>Provision the nodes using the following command. Variables are being
    used to make it easier to use the hammer command.</p>

    <p>Simply set the <b>NAME, PTABLE</b>, and <b>MAC</b> variables
    appropriately for a host, then execute the <b>hammer host create</b>
    command. Once the host is created, reset the variables for the next host
    and execute the same hammer command again.</p>

    <p>Repeat this until all hosts are created. Make sure to change the root
    password on the command line as needed.</p>

    <simpletable relcolwidth="279* 721*">
      <strow>
        <stentry>NAME</stentry>

        <stentry>The hostname of the provisioned host.</stentry>
      </strow>

      <strow>
        <stentry>PTABLE</stentry>

        <stentry>The ID of the partition table that should be used when
        deploying this host. This ID is the same for all the compute nodes,
        but the controller uses a different partition table ID.</stentry>
      </strow>

      <strow>
        <stentry>MAC</stentry>

        <stentry>The hardware address of the provisioning interface for the
        node.</stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>

    <p>Change the remaining IDs in the command as appropriate.</p>

    <msgblock># NAME=CHANGEME
# PTABLE=CHANGEME
# MAC=CHANGEME
# hammer host create --name "${NAME}" --root-password 'CHANGEME' \
 --build true --enabled true --managed true --environment-id 2 \
 --domain-id 1 --puppet-proxy-id 1 --operatingsystem-id 2 \
 --subnet-id 1 --architecture-id 1 --medium-id 9 \
 --partition-table-id ${PTABLE} \
 --mac ${MAC}</msgblock>

    <section><lines/><title>Get host information </title></section>

    <p>The IDs of the newly defined hosts are needed to finish their
    configuration.</p>

    <p>Execute the <b>hammer host list</b> command to get the host IDs. Take
    note of these IDs.</p>

    <msgblock># hammer host list</msgblock>

    <section><lines/><title>Controller Node </title></section>

    <p>The controller nodes have two bonded interfaces, one with two vlans
    configured, and two remaining interfaces that are not bonded. The Public
    API network is on a pair of bonded interfaces and the Private API and
    Storage networks are on a separate pair of bonded interfaces.</p>

    <p>The Private API and Storage networks are VLAN tagged networks on a
    bonded interface. The Provisioning and the Management interfaces are on
    individual non-bonded interfaces.</p>

    <p/>

    <section><title>Non-Bonded Nic Configuration</title><p>The <b>nics</b>
    parameter can be set on the hosts to provide the information needed to
    allow the kickstart file to configure the non-bonded interfaces.
    </p><p>Set the <b>nics</b> parameter on the controller host to configure
    the non-bonded interfaces. The <b>Provisioning</b> interface is configured
    by Foreman, so it does not need to be configured again.</p></section>

    <p>The value for the <b>nic</b> parameter consists of a space separated
    list of <b>key=value</b> pairs. Each pair contains the configuration
    information for a single nic. This list is entered in the same format a s
    a bash associative array. The entire value is enclosed within single
    tickmarks and parentheses. <i>( …)</i></p>

    <p>Each key/value is in the following format:</p>

    <ul>
      <li><b>[IFACE]="parameters"</b></li>
    </ul>

    <p>An example of defining a single interface:</p>

    <msgblock># hammer host set-parameter --host-id 3 --name nics \
 --value '([em1]="onboot static aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff 192.168.0.110/255.255.255.0")'</msgblock>

    <p>The parameters consist of the following:</p>

    <simpletable relcolwidth="259* 741*">
      <strow>
        <stentry>onboot</stentry>

        <stentry>The interface is enabled when the system boots. Default is
        <i>disabled</i>.</stentry>
      </strow>

      <strow>
        <stentry>dhcp | static | none</stentry>

        <stentry>The interface gets its network configuration using DHCP,· the
        network configuration is staticaly configured, or the interface has no
        network configuration. If no option is specified, <i>dhcp</i> is
        assumed.</stentry>
      </strow>

      <strow>
        <stentry>xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx</stentry>

        <stentry>The hardware address of the interface.</stentry>
      </strow>

      <strow>
        <stentry>x.x.x.x/y.y.y.y</stentry>

        <stentry>The IP address and Network mask of the interface. Used only
        when static is specified. Must be in the format presented.</stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>

    <p>Execute the following command to set the nic parameters for the two
    other interfaces used by the controller node. Replace the <b>HOST_ID,
    IFACE, MAC</b>, and<b> IP/MASK </b>parameters as appropriate.</p>

    <msgblock># hammer host set-parameter --host-id HOST_ID --name nics \
 --value '([IFACE]="onboot static MAC IP/MASK" [IFACE]="onboot static MAC IP/MASK")'
</msgblock>

    <p/>

    <section><title>Bonded Nic Configuration</title><p>Three parameters can be
    set on the hosts to provide the information needed to allow the kickstart
    file to configure the bonded interfaces. These parameters are: <b>bonds,
    bond_ifaces</b>, and <b>bond_opts</b>.</p><p>The <b>bonds</b> parameter is
    similar to the <b>nics</b> parameter used earlier with the addition of the
    <i>vlan</i> option and the removal of the <i>mac address </i>option.
    </p><p>When creating a VLAN tagged bond, use the<i> vlan</i> option to let
    the bonding_snippet know this bond is vlan tagged. Also specify the tag
    number in the bond name.</p><p>For example:</p><msgblock>'( [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.301]="onboot static vlan 172.30.139.62/255.255.255.0" )'</msgblock></section>

    <p>Created a <b>bond0</b> that is enabled at boot. It then creates a VLAN
    tagged bond on the bond called <i>bond0.301</i>.</p>

    <p>See the documentation on the bonding_snippit for more information.</p>

    <p>The <b>bond_ifaces</b> parameter is used to specify the interfaces for
    each bond.</p>

    <p>For example:</p>

    <msgblock>'( [bond0]="em1 em2" )'</msgblock>

    <p>Bonds interfaces em1 and em2 into bond0.</p>

    <p>The <b>bond_opts</b> parameter specifies the bonding options to use for
    each bond.</p>

    <p>For example:</p>

    <msgblock>'( "[bond0]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" )'</msgblock>

    <p>Create the three needed parameters using the <b>hammer host
    set-parameter </b>command. Replace the <b>HOST_ID</b>,<b> VLAN</b>, and<b>
    IP/MASK</b> information as appropriate to define the bonds.</p>

    <msgblock># hammer host set-parameter --host-id HOST_ID --name bonds \
 --value '( [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.VLAN1]="onboot static vlan IP/MASK"
 [bond0.VLAN2]="onboot static vlan IP/MASK" [bond1]="onboot static IP/MASK")'
# hammer host set-parameter --host-id HOST_ID --name bond_ifaces \
 --value '( [bond0]="p3p1 p3p2" [bond1]="em1 em2")'
# hammer host set-parameter --host-id HOST_ID --name bond_opts \
 --value '( [bond0]="mode=active-backup" [bond1]="mode=active-backup")'</msgblock>

    <p>Repeat the parameter configuration for all the controller nodes.</p>

    <p/>

    <section><title>Compute Nodes</title><p>The compute nodes have two
    separate bonds and a single non-bonded interface for its networking. The
    single interface is connects to the Provisioning network and is already
    configured. </p><p>One bond connects to the Nova Public Network, while the
    other bond connects to the Nova Private, Private_API, and Storage
    networks. Each network on the second bond are VLAN tagged. </p><p>Set the
    <b>bonds, bond_ifaces,</b> and<b> bond_opts</b> parameters for each
    compute node. </p><p>Make sure the <b>bond_opts</b> sets the<b>
    </b><b>MODE</b> to balance-tlb miimon=100 and <b>PROMISC</b> to yes. </p><p>An
    example set of commands follows: </p><msgblock># hammer host set-parameter --host-id HOST_ID --name bonds \
 --value '( [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.300]="onboot static vlan 172.20.139.110/255.255.255.0"
 [bond0.301]="onboot static vlan 172.30.139.110/255.255.255.0"
 [bond0.302]="onboot static vlan 172.40.139.110/255.255.255.0"
 [bond1]="onboot static 172.10.139.61/255.255.255.0")'
# hammer host set-parameter --host-id HOST_ID --name bond_ifaces \
 --value '( [bond0]="p3p1 p3p2" [bond1]="em1 em2")'
# hammer host set-parameter --host-id HOST_ID --name bond_opts \
 --value '( [bond0]="mode=balance-tlb  miimon=100 PROMISC=yes" [bond1]="mode=balance-tlb  miimon=100 PROMISC=yes")</msgblock></section>

    <section><p/><title>Set Host Update Parameters</title></section>

    <p>Each node can use a separate pool ID and require different
    repositories. These parameters are set on a per host basis instead of an
    operating system.</p>

    <p>The following parameters need to be set on each host.</p>

    <simpletable relcolwidth="320* 680*">
      <strow>
        <stentry>subscription_manager_pool</stentry>

        <stentry>The ID of the pool to attach the host to.</stentry>
      </strow>

      <strow>
        <stentry>subscription_manager_repos</stentry>

        <stentry>The repositories that should be enabled after the host is
        registered.</stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>

    <p/>

    <section><title>Determine Pool ID</title><p>To determine the pool id, you
    must have an existing server that is registered to the RedHat Hosted
    Services. This server must also be registered using the same credentials
    as the ones being used in this environment. </p><p>Once the server is
    correctly registered, execute the subscription-manager list --all
    --available command to see the available subscription pools. </p><p>The
    command will output a list of available pools. Each section of information
    lists what the subscription provides, its pool ID, how many are available,
    the type of system it is for, as well as other information.
    </p><p>Determine the correct pool ID needed for this environment and take
    note of it. Place close attention to the System Type. The System Type can
    be Virtual or Physical. You cannot use a pool marked as Virtual for a
    physical server.</p><msgblock># subscription-manager list --all --available
[OUTPUT ABBREVIATED]
Subscription Name: Red Hat Cloud Infrastructure, Standard (8-sockets)
Provides: Red Hat Beta
 Red Hat OpenStack Beta
 JBoss Enterprise Application Platform
 Red Hat Software Collections (for RHEL Server)
 Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization
 Oracle Java (for RHEL Server)
 Red Hat OpenStack
 Red Hat Enterprise MRG Messaging
 Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server
 Red Hat Enterprise Linux High Availability (for RHEL Server)
 Red Hat Software Collections Beta (for RHEL Server)
 Red Hat Enterprise Linux Load Balancer (for RHEL Server)
 Red Hat CloudForms
SKU: MCT2861
Pool ID: aaaa111bbb222ccc333ddd444eee5556
Available: 7
Suggested: 1
Service Level: Standard
Service Type: L1-L3
Multi-Entitlement: No
Ends: 09/23/2015
System Type: Physical
[OUTPUT ABBREVIATED]</msgblock></section>

    <section><title>Configure the PoolID </title><p>Execute the following
    command for each host. Substitute the <b>HOST_ID </b>and <b>POOL_ID </b>as
    appropriate.</p><msgblock># hammer host set-parameter --host-id-id HOST_ID \
 --name subscription_manager_pool --value POOL_ID
</msgblock></section>

    <p/>

    <section><title>Configure the Repositories</title><p>The controller nodes
    and compute nodes both require the rhel-server-rhscl-7-rpms,
    rhel-7-server-rpms, and rhel-7-server-openstack-5.0-rpms repositories.
    </p><p>The compute nodes also require the rhel-ha-for-rhel-7-server-rpms
    repository. </p><p>Execute the following command on each controller node
    to enable the needed repositories. </p><msgblock># hammer os set-parameter --host-id HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_repos \
 --value "rhel-server-rhscl-7-rpms, rhel-7-server-rpms,
 rhel-7-server-openstack-5.0-rpms,rhel-ha-for-rhel-7-server-rpms"</msgblock></section>

    <p>Execute the following command on each compute node to enable the needed
    repositories.</p>

    <msgblock># hammer os set-parameter --host-id HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_repos \
 --value "rhel-server-rhscl-7-rpms, rhel-7-server-rpms,
 rhel-7-server-openstack-5.0-rpms"
</msgblock>

    <p/>

    <section><title>Start Provisioning</title><p>PXE boot each of the nodes.
    After they are booted, make sure the networks are configured
    appropriately. </p></section>

    <p/>

    <section><title>Ceph Deployment </title><p>If Ceph must be configured on
    these nodes, follow the <b>Red Hat Openstack Platform Integration with
    Ceph</b> document. </p></section>

    <p/>

    <section><title>Next Steps </title><p>After the Ceph configuration is
    complete or if Ceph configuration is not needed, continue the
    configuration using the <b>Dell Pilot Hostgroups Deployment</b> document.
    </p></section>

    <p/>

    <section><title>Appendix - Example Hammer Commands
    </title><p><b>hammer-list</b></p><msgblock>hammer medium create --name "Dell OSP Pilot" --os-family RedHat \
 --path 'http://rh6fore.r5.lab/ks/dist/ks-rhel-$arch-server-$majo-$version'
hammer medium list
hammer partition-table create
hammer partition-table create --name dell-pilot --os-family Redhat --file dell-pilo.partition
hammer partition-table create --name dell-pilot --os-family Redhat --file dell-pilot.partition
hammer partition-table create --name dell-pilot --os-family Redhat --file dell-pilot.partition
hammer os create --name "RedHat" --major 7 --minor 0 --family Redhat
hammer os list
hammer os add-architecture --architecture x86_64 --id 3
hammer os add-ptable --ptable-id 8 --id 3
hammer subnet list
hammer template create --name "Dell OpenStack Kickstart Template" --type provision \
hammer template create --name "Dell OpenStack Kickstart Template" \
 --operatingsystem-ids "3" --file dell-osp-ks.template
hammer template create --name "Dell OpenStack Kickstart Template" type provision \
 --operatingsystem-ids "3" --file dell-osp-ks.template
hammer template create --name "Dell OpenStack Kickstart Template" --type provision \
 --operatingsystem-ids "3" --file dell-osp-ks.template
hammer template create --name "Dell OpenStack PXE Template" --type PXELinux \
 --operatingsystem-ids "3" --file dell-osp-pxe.template
hammer template create --name "bond_interfaces" --type snippet \
hammer template create --name "bond_interfaces" --type snippet--file bonding_snippet.template
hammer template create --name "bond_interfaces" --type snippet --file bonding_snippet.template
hammer template create --name "interface_config" --type snippet --file interface_config.template
hammer tempalte list
hammer template list
hammer os update --config-template-ids "33,34" --medium-ids 8 --id 3
hammer os set-default-template --config-template-id 34 --id 3
hammer os info --id 3
hammer domain list
hammer proxy list
hammer architecture list
hammer os set-parameter
hammer os set-parameter --operatingsystem-id
hammer os list
hammer os set-parameter --operatingsystem-id ${OS_ID} --name subscription_manager --value true
hammer os set-parameter --operatingsystem-id ${OS_ID} --name subscription_manager --value true
hammer os set-parameter --operatingsystem-id ${OS_ID} --name subscription_manager --value true
hammer os set-parameter --operatingsystem-id 3 \
 --name subscription_manager --value true
hammer os set-parameter --operatingsystem-id 3 \
 --name subscription_manager_username --value changeme
hammer os set-parameter --operatingsystem-id 3 \
 --name subscription_manager_password --value changeme
hammer os list</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-nic-bond-cntl1 </b></p><msgblock>HOST_ID='15'
POOLID=changeme
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name nics \
 --value '([em2]="onboot static 192.168.110.127/255.255.255.0")'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bonds \
 --value '( [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.190]="onboot static vlan 192.168.190.130/255.255.255.0"
 [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.140]="onboot static vlan 192.168.123.41/255.255.255.0"
 [bond1]="onboot static 10.9.244.130/255.255.254.0" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_opts \
 --value '( [bond0]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" [bond1]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_ifaces \
 --value '([bond0]="p5p2 p7p2" [bond1]="p5p1 p7p1" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy \
 --value "proxy.us.dell.com"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy_port \
 --value "80"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id ${HOST_ID} --name subscription_manager_pool \
 --value "${POOLID}"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_repos \
 --value "rhel-server-rhscl-7-rpms, rhel-7-server-rpms,
 rhel-7-server-openstack-5.0-rpms, rhel-ha-for-rhel-7-server-rpms"</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-nic-bond-cntl2</b>
    </p><msgblock>HOST_ID='16'
POOLID=changeme
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name nics \
 --value '([em2]="onboot static 192.168.110.128/255.255.255.0")'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bonds \
 --value '( [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.190]="onboot static vlan 192.168.190.131/255.255.255.0"
 [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.140]="onboot static vlan 192.168.123.42/255.255.255.0"
 [bond1]="onboot static 10.9.244.131/255.255.254.0" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_opts \
 --value '( [bond0]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" [bond1]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_ifaces \
 --value '([bond0]="p5p2 p7p2" [bond1]="p5p1 p7p1" ) '
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy \
 --value "proxy.us.dell.com"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy_port \
 --value "80"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id ${HOST_ID} --name subscription_manager_pool \
 --value "${POOLID}"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_repos \
 --value "rhel-server-rhscl-7-rpms, rhel-7-server-rpms,
 rhel-7-server-openstack-5.0-rpms, rhel-ha-for-rhel-7-server-rpms"</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-nic-bond-cntl3</b></p><msgblock>HOST_ID='21'
POOLID=changeme
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name nics \
 --value '([em2]="onboot static 192.168.110.129/255.255.255.0")'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bonds \
 --value '( [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.190]="onboot static vlan 192.168.190.132/255.255.255.0"
 [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.140]="onboot static vlan 192.168.123.43/255.255.255.0"
 [bond1]="onboot static 10.9.244.132/255.255.254.0" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_opts \
 --value '( [bond0]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" [bond1]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_ifaces \
 --value '([bond0]="p5p2 p6p2" [bond1]="p5p1 p6p1" ) '
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy \
 --value "proxy.us.dell.com"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy_port \
 --value "80"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id ${HOST_ID} --name subscription_manager_pool \
 --value "${POOLID}"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_repos \
 --value "rhel-server-rhscl-7-rpms, rhel-7-server-rpms,
 rhel-7-server-openstack-5.0-rpms, rhel-ha-for-rhel-7-server-rpms</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-nic-bond-nova1
    </b></p><msgblock>HOST_ID='24'
POOLID=changeme
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bonds \
 --value '( [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.190]="onboot static vlan 192.168.190.133/255.255.255.0"
 [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.130]="onboot static vlan 192.168.130.133/255.255.255.0"
 [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.140]="onboot static vlan 192.168.123.44/255.255.255.0"
 [bond1]="onboot none" [bond1.207]="onboot static vlan 192.168.207.133/255.255.255.0" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_opts \
 --value '( [bond0]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" [bond1]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_ifaces \
 --value '([bond0]="p5p2 p6p2" [bond1]="p5p1 p6p1" ) '
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy \
 --value "proxy.us.dell.com" 
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy_port \
 --value "80"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id ${HOST_ID} --name subscription_manager_pool \
 --value "${POOLID}"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_repos \
 --value "rhel-server-rhscl-7-rpms, rhel-7-server-rpms,
 rhel-7-server-openstack-5.0-rpms, rhel-ha-for-rhel-7-server-rpms"</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-nic-bond-nova2
    </b></p><msgblock>HOST_ID='25'
POOLID=changeme
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bonds \
 --value '( [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.190]="onboot static vlan 192.168.190.134/255.255.255.0"
 [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.130]="onboot static vlan 192.168.130.134/255.255.255.0"
 [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.140]="onboot static vlan 192.168.123.45/255.255.255.0"
 [bond1]="onboot none" [bond1.207]="onboot static vlan 192.168.207.134/255.255.255.0" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_opts \
 --value '( [bond0]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" [bond1]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_ifaces \
 --value '([bond0]="p5p2 p6p2" [bond1]="p5p1 p6p1" ) '
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy \
 --value "proxy.us.dell.com"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy_port \
 --value "80"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id ${HOST_ID} --name subscription_manager_pool \
 --value "${POOLID}"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_repos \
 --value "rhel-server-rhscl-7-rpms, rhel-7-server-rpms,
 rhel-7-server-openstack-5.0-rpms, rhel-ha-for-rhel-7-server-rpms"</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-nic-bond-nova3
    </b></p><msgblock>HOST_ID='26'
POOLID=changeme
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bonds \
 --value '( [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.190]="onboot static vlan 192.168.190.135/255.255.255.0"
 [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.130]="onboot static vlan 192.168.130.135/255.255.255.0"
 [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.140]="onboot static vlan 192.168.123.46/255.255.255.0"
 [bond1]="onboot none" [bond1.207]="onboot static vlan 192.168.207.135/255.255.255.0" )' 
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_opts \
 --value '( [bond0]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" [bond1]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_ifaces \
 --value '([bond0]="p1p2 p5p2" [bond1]="p1p1 p5p1" ) '
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy \
 --value "proxy.us.dell.com"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy_port \
 --value "80"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id ${HOST_ID} --name subscription_manager_pool \
 --value "${POOLID}"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_repos \
 --value "rhel-server-rhscl-7-rpms, rhel-7-server-rpms,
 rhel-7-server-openstack-5.0-rpms, rhel-ha-for-rhel-7-server-rpms"</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-nic-bond-ceph1
    </b></p><msgblock>HOST_ID='28'
POOLID=changeme
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bonds \
 --value '( [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.190]="onboot static vlan 192.168.190.140/255.255.255.0"
 [bond1]="onboot none" [bond1.191]="onboot static vlan 192.168.191.140/255.255.255.0" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_opts \
 --value '( [bond0]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" [bond1]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_ifaces \
 --value '([bond0]="p4p2 p6p2" [bond1]="p4p1 p6p1" ) '
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy \
 --value "proxy.us.dell.com"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy_port \
 --value "80"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id ${HOST_ID} --name subscription_manager_pool \
 --value "${POOLID}"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_repos \
 --value "rhel-server-rhscl-7-rpms, rhel-7-server-rpms,
 rhel-7-server-openstack-5.0-rpms, rhel-ha-for-rhel-7-server-rpms"</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-nic-bond-ceph2
    </b></p><msgblock>HOST_ID='29' 
POOLID=changeme
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bonds \
 --value '( [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.190]="onboot static vlan 192.168.190.141/255.255.255.0"
 [bond1]="onboot none" [bond1.191]="onboot static vlan 192.168.191.141/255.255.255.0" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_opts \
 --value '( [bond0]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" [bond1]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_ifaces \
 --value '([bond0]="p4p2 p6p2" [bond1]="p4p1 p6p1" ) '
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy \
 --value "proxy.us.dell.com"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy_port \
 --value "80"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id ${HOST_ID} --name subscription_manager_pool \
 --value "${POOLID}"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_repos \
 --value "rhel-server-rhscl-7-rpms, rhel-7-server-rpms,
 rhel-7-server-openstack-5.0-rpms, rhel-ha-for-rhel-7-server-rpms"</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-nic-bond-ceph3
    </b></p><msgblock>HOST_ID='30'
POOLID=changeme
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bonds \
 --value '( [bond0]="onboot none" [bond0.190]="onboot static vlan 192.168.190.142/255.255.255.0"
 [bond1]="onboot none" [bond1.191]="onboot static vlan 192.168.191.142/255.255.255.0" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_opts \
 --value '( [bond0]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" [bond1]="mode=balance-tlb miimon=100" )'
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name bond_ifaces \
 --value '([bond0]="p4p2 p6p2" [bond1]="p4p1 p6p1" ) '
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy \
 --value "proxy.us.dell.com"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_proxy_port \
 --value "80"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id ${HOST_ID} --name subscription_manager_pool \
 --value "${POOLID}"
hammer host set-parameter --host-id $HOST_ID --name subscription_manager_repos \
 --value "rhel-server-rhscl-7-rpms, rhel-7-server-rpms,
 rhel-7-server-openstack-5.0-rpms, rhel-ha-for-rhel-7-server-rpms"</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-deploy-cntl1
    </b></p><msgblock>NAME=rh7cntl1
PTABLE=12
MAC=B8:CA:3A:68:67:54
IP=192.168.119.130
hammer host create --name "${NAME}" --root-password 'changeme' \
--build true --enabled true --managed true --environment-id 2 \
--domain-id 1 --puppet-proxy-id 1 --operatingsystem-id 3 --ip ${IP} \
--subnet-id 1 --architecture-id 1 --medium-id 9 --partition-table-id ${PTABLE} --mac ${MAC}
hammer host list |grep ${NAME}</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-deploy-cntl2
    </b></p><msgblock>NAME=rh7cntl2
PTABLE=12
MAC=B8:CA:3A:68:67:68
IP=192.168.119.131
hammer host create --name "${NAME}" --root-password 'changeme' \
--build true --enabled true --managed true --environment-id 2 \
--domain-id 1 --puppet-proxy-id 1 --operatingsystem-id 3 --ip ${IP} \
--subnet-id 1 --architecture-id 1 --medium-id 9 --partition-table-id ${PTABLE} --mac ${MAC}
hammer host list |grep ${NAME}</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-deploy-cntl3
    </b></p><msgblock>NAME=rh7cntl3
PTABLE=12
MAC=B8:CA:3A:67:43:6C
IP=192.168.119.132
hammer host create --name "${NAME}" --root-password 'changeme' \
--build true --enabled true --managed true --environment-id 2 \
--domain-id 1 --puppet-proxy-id 1 --operatingsystem-id 3 --ip ${IP} \
--subnet-id 1 --architecture-id 1 --medium-id 9 --partition-table-id ${PTABLE} --mac ${MAC}NAME=rh7cntl3
PTABLE=12
MAC=B8:CA:3A:67:43:6C
IP=192.168.119.132
hammer host create --name "${NAME}" --root-password 'changeme' \
--build true --enabled true --managed true --environment-id 2 \
--domain-id 1 --puppet-proxy-id 1 --operatingsystem-id 3 --ip ${IP} \
--subnet-id 1 --architecture-id 1 --medium-id 9 --partition-table-id ${PTABLE} --mac ${MAC}
hammer host list |grep ${NAME}</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-deploy-nova1
    </b></p><msgblock>NAME=rh7nova1
PTABLE=12
MAC=B8:CA:3A:67:3C:D0
IP=192.168.119.133
hammer host create --name "${NAME}" --root-password 'changeme' \
--build true --enabled true --managed true --environment-id 2 \
--domain-id 1 --puppet-proxy-id 1 --operatingsystem-id 3 --ip ${IP} \
--subnet-id 1 --architecture-id 1 --medium-id 9 --partition-table-id ${PTABLE} --mac ${MAC}
hammer host list |grep ${NAME}</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-deploy-nova2
    </b></p><msgblock>NAME=rh7nova2
PTABLE=12
MAC=B8:CA:3A:67:3F:68
IP=192.168.119.134
hammer host create --name "${NAME}" --root-password 'changeme' \
--build true --enabled true --managed true --environment-id 2 \
--domain-id 1 --puppet-proxy-id 1 --operatingsystem-id 3 --ip ${IP} \
--subnet-id 1 --architecture-id 1 --medium-id 9 --partition-table-id ${PTABLE} --mac ${MAC}
hammer host list |grep ${NAME}</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-deploy-nova3
    </b></p><msgblock>NAME=rh7nova3
PTABLE=12
MAC=B8:CA:3A:67:3D:C8
IP=192.168.119.135
hammer host create --name "${NAME}" --root-password 'changeme' \
--build true --enabled true --managed true --environment-id 2 \
--domain-id 1 --puppet-proxy-id 1 --operatingsystem-id 3 --ip ${IP} \
--subnet-id 1 --architecture-id 1 --medium-id 9 --partition-table-id ${PTABLE} --mac ${MAC}
hammer host list |grep ${NAME}</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-deploy-ceph1</b>
    </p><msgblock>NAME=rh7ss1
PTABLE=12
MAC=B8:CA:3A:67:17:4C
IP=192.168.119.140
hammer host create --name "${NAME}" --root-password 'changeme' \
--build true --enabled true --managed true --environment-id 2 \
--domain-id 1 --puppet-proxy-id 1 --operatingsystem-id 3 --ip ${IP} \
--subnet-id 1 --architecture-id 1 --medium-id 9 --partition-table-id ${PTABLE} --mac ${MAC}
hammer host list |grep ${NAME}</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-deploy-ceph2</b></p><msgblock>NAME=rh7ss2
PTABLE=12
MAC=B8:CA:3A:67:0C:7C
IP=192.168.119.141
hammer host create --name "${NAME}" --root-password 'changeme' \
--build true --enabled true --managed true --environment-id 2 \
--domain-id 1 --puppet-proxy-id 1 --operatingsystem-id 3 --ip ${IP} \
--subnet-id 1 --architecture-id 1 --medium-id 9 --partition-table-id ${PTABLE} --mac ${MAC}
hammer host list |grep ${NAME}</msgblock><p/><p><b>hammer-deploy-ceph3
    </b></p><msgblock>NAME=rh7ss3
PTABLE=12
MAC=B8:CA:3A:67:0D:38
IP=192.168.119.142
hammer host create --name "${NAME}" --root-password 'changeme' \
--build true --enabled true --managed true --environment-id 2 \
--domain-id 1 --puppet-proxy-id 1 --operatingsystem-id 3 --ip ${IP} \
--subnet-id 1 --architecture-id 1 --medium-id 9 --partition-table-id ${PTABLE} --mac ${MAC}
hammer host list |grep ${NAME}</msgblock></section>

    <p/>
  </body>
</topic>
